'I see a beautiful city and a brilliant people rising from this abyss, and, in their struggles to be truly free, in their triumphs and defeats, through long long to come, I see the evil of this time and of the previous time of which this is the natural birth, gradually making expiation for itself and wearing out.’

This was not another time of his life. He had grown old in many years, and his limbs had lost most of their
strength, and in all the years of his occupation he had been weaker than in this
time.

‘But I see now,’ said he, ‘that it is summer, and that there is fire in the streets, and
that there are bright sparks flying here and there, and that there are birds of
kind that sing and dance there, and that there is music in the songs of the
little children who come to it in their innocent prattles, and that it is a
seasonable season for people who love it, and who are well satisfied, and who
cannot help enjoying it, though their hearts are heavy with cares and
wonders.’

He said all of this, as if it were all he took, and as if it were all he
could take.

‘But I see now,’ he went on, ‘that it is, at last, winter, and that there is
fire, and that there is light. I see that the city is falling away from here,
and that there is life in the darkening shadows of the streets. I see that
people are afraid of the fire, and that they are watching it with looks of
choking. I see that the people are not afraid of the light, because of what
they plainly see. But what I have seen, I say, and do not conceal; I do
not call to mind to myself, I think, but I say to you. I tell you, therefore,
that it is summer, and that there is light. What I have seen, I say again
with the truth; but, if you will hear what I have seen, you will feel for
what I have endured, and for what my heart is breaking.’

He felt how bitterly he could make the subject of his tears and his grief, in
such a struggle with it, and he tried to compose himself as best he could.

‘It is summer, sir,’ he said, ‘and the shadows are beginning to fall. I
see that the autumn season is upon the horizon. The leaves are glistening in
the light of the sun, and the autumn season is upon us. I feel as if I
were a young child in their embrace, and yet I have a yearning to know
their thoughts and feelings. I seem to have been a child myself, sir, when
I think of this season; and yet I know it well. I dare say I have seen
birds of paradise, with my childish eyes, and yet I know it well. I
doubt if I have indeed, sir, but it is so old and it is here, and it
has been with me ever since.’

He said these words in such a tremulous voice, and he almost feared
that he had said them. He had been at the pains of carrying his
tears upon his face, and he now shed them, and said, ‘Oh, I am very
sorry!’

‘I am very sorry,’ said Mr Meagles.

‘Very sorry,’ said Mr Meagles. ‘But it is summer, and there is life
there. There are people who look at this season as if it were a season of
petitions and of exertion, but they are the people of Paradise. There
are people who love it there, and these are the people of Paradise.
There are people who are enemies of paradise, but they are the people
of Paradise. There are people who are friends of the Paradise, and these
are the people of Paradise. There are people who hate the Paradise, but they
are the people of Paradise. There are people who are enemies of the people of
Paradise, but they are the people of Paradise. There are people who have no
soul here, but they are the people of Paradise. There are people who are the
people of Paradise. There are people who are the people of Paradise. There are
people who hate the Paradise, but they are the people of Paradise. There are
people who love the Paradise, but they are the people of Paradise. There are
people who hate the Paradise, but they are the people of Paradise. There are
people who are the people of Paradise and who love the Paradise, and who
hate
====================
'I see a beautiful city and a brilliant people rising from this abyss, and, in their struggles to be truly free, in their triumphs and defeats, through long long to come, I see the evil of this time and of the previous time of which this is the natural birth, gradually making expiation for itself and wearing out.’

‘Dear me,’ said Herbert, ‘you are right. This is the way to look after people! You will be pleased to hear that I have for some time, and in some places still, of
suspected Bellerophon.’

‘I have read,’ said Lightwood, ‘to the last, that you have had Mr. Lightwood?’

‘I have had Mr. Lightwood, sir, since I have been in the service; but I have not
forgotten him.’

‘You had a friend?’

‘I had a friend,’ said Bradley, hesitating, ‘who was a favourite of my
father’s. It was not that he was unscrupulous, or base, or basely hard
with me; but because he liked to have me about his house, and to keep me
in attendance upon him. He would often take me into his room, when he was
at his own office, and bring me, in the heat of the moment, to his own
apartment in another part of the house. When I went to his room at night, he
would sit down beside me, and whisper, “Boy! Here’s the Doctor”; and then
he would be busy with his own affairs, and not with mine. He was a lover
of mine, and of the best that this world is, and that was what we were. I
believe that.’

‘And you had enemies,’ said Lightwood, with his former feeling.

‘I had some, and they were many, and they did you harm, and made me nervous,’
said Bradley, with his former feeling. ‘But I had him. He set up his
opponent, the young man I spoke of, against me. He knew my worth, and what
I was worth. He could see that I had worth, and was willing to pay for it.
I could show myself a ragged ship without a crew; yet I had worth, and I
had some worth.’

‘It’s much to be regretted,’ said Lightwood, ‘that I should turn my
opponent against you. I should have done better to have kept my own counsel
alone. But I am a man of my word, and I must speak.’

Bradley’s face was as pale as ever it had been, and he shook his head with
frightfully sharp interest.

‘You didn’t take the least notice of what I said to you, and you didn’t
understand it. You can’t doubt it, Bradley?’

‘I did understand it, sir. I thought I had taken it ill. But I don’t think I
understood you.’

‘I could have sworn you would have understood it,’ said Bradley,
pointedly.

‘Willing to be understood, sir,’ repeated Lightwood, with an anxious
look at the fire.

‘And now I don’t understand you. But that I did,’ said Bradley, with his
former feeling, ‘understand you.’

‘I don’t think you meant to say, sir, or mean to say,’ returned the other,
‘that you hadn’t some liking for me, and that you thought I was of your
excess. What did you say to me, sir?’

‘I said I would have your opinion,’ said Bradley, with his former feeling.

‘Very well, sir,’ said Lightwood, ‘I will.’

Bradley’s face was as pale as ever it had been, and he trembled in
speaking thus.

‘You won’t be violent, sir,’ said Lightwood, ‘or you would have said
this sooner. You won’t be violent, sir. You won’t be savage, sir. I
will, sir.’

‘But I won’t,’ cried Bradley, with his feelings and passions subsiding
again with the great loss of all, ‘I will not have this
====================
'I see a beautiful city and a brilliant people rising from this abyss, and, in their struggles to be truly free, in their triumphs and defeats, through long long to come, I see the evil of this time and of the previous time of which this is the natural birth, gradually making expiation for itself and wearing out.’

I felt, as I had a doubt of my own husband’s words before, that I had never before seen
such a calm, composed, dispassionate, and affectionate man. He sat in the same
recess in which he sat before, and his face was so still that he might have
been looking at me so long that I could not have known at what times he
turned his eyes towards me.

‘We are free,’ he said, in his calmest, most peaceful way.

‘We are free,’ I repeated.

‘We are free,’ he repeated.

‘I wish I had had the opportunity of knowing--of conveying to you,’ he
continued, with a quiet smile, a kind of feeling for my affections, ‘the
heart in which your sympathy lay.’

‘I have no doubt it was that, sir,’ I said.

‘No,’ said he.

‘I have no doubt, sir,’ I repeated, ‘that I have a heart like that.’

‘I am glad of it,’ said he.

‘And I am glad to know that,’ said I.

‘I am not sure,’ he returned.

This was in itself extremely aggravating, because I had a feeling that
he would not like me to say I fancied it--as he did, by making me so far away
in such a fantastic manner; but, on the other hand, I was very much relieved
to find that he took a great pity on me, and the more he could gratify it by
turning round upon me with the cart-horse and scraping his chin as he rode
away, the more he made me believe that I was quiet and well.

After the first few miles we had walked, I was so used to it that I
could walk on the brink of the river without once feeling the want of sleep,
and yet still see the shadow of the old house and the old church, and
still complete the likeness of the old man. It was the shadow of the room
into which I had come, that I left behind when I left England, and was
thinkful of it always afterwards.

The old church looked as old as the time, and was so down in the earth,
and the old stories about the drowned people and drowned gods and fallen
heroes of the old time--the stories of how the drowned swelled the waters
to their great height, and made for the land that lay beyond--the stories of
squalls and crashes and struggles and piteous weeping and wretched dreams,
were all alike as I left them.

I had a morning meditation to meditate upon, and I sat meditating upon it in
the old church porch, when the shadow of the great tower of St. Paul’s
tumbled upon me. I had a morning meditation to meditate upon it again, and the
meditation seemed to lead me into consciousness.

That great tower was up, and that I was looking down into the room where my
broken son lay in the arms of the old woman who had nursed him, and
where his broken daughter lay, and where my broken brother lay, and where
my broken sister lay, and where my broken brother’s wife lay, and where my
broken brother’s children lay, and where my son lay, with the broken arms
he had nursed, and the broken body he had torn from them, and his mind
was all at rest.

But, there was the old shadow again, and it was over again. When I
looked towards the old seat where I had seen my first picture of the
grizzled girl, and where I had heard my first cry of the dying morning, and
where I had seen the picture of the dying room all blurred and faded,
and of the dying patient all blistered and scorched, and of the dying
beauty all decayed, and of the dying young woman all lying on her bed, and
where her father’s coffin lay, and of her brother’s, and of the dying day
all night, I thought of the picture, and of the picture with the boy
in it, and of the dying young woman, and of the living room with
====================
'I see a beautiful city and a brilliant people rising from this abyss, and, in their struggles to be truly free, in their triumphs and defeats, through long long to come, I see the evil of this time and of the previous time of which this is the natural birth, gradually making expiation for itself and wearing out.’

He added, after a little while, in his still impious way, ‘But,’

‘what is the evil of this time, sir?’

‘The evil of this time, in my eyes,’ said the Doctor, making his hand with his
forefinger and thumb close to his nose, and then bending over the Doctor as if he
feared to touch him, and whispering in his ear, ‘The dark, sharp, unyielding streets,
and the dark, sharp, unyielding streets! The long lines upon the raw
pavement, the long rows of houses, the long rows of men in their
dark, sharp, unyielding winter!’

‘The time has gone by me, sir,’ he said, with his face looking down, ‘and its
night is falling fast. The time has gone by me, and its night is
already falling.’

A sense of the ominous force with which he closed his eyes, when he arrived
at this conclusion, filled him with a lingering dread that he might yet
come to the scene of action, and that he might perish in the attempt. He was
quietly seated in his chair, and his chair was on the Doctor’s right hand,
but his eyes were looking elsewhere.

‘It cannot be, sir,’ said the Doctor, waving his hand.

‘No, no,’ said the Doctor, ‘it must not be. Where would you go, Mr
Wrayburn, if you would come with me, and take leave of me?’

‘I would leave wonderfully, sir,’ returned Mr Wrayburn, with his hand still
in his pocket.

The Doctor shook his head.

‘You have told me, Mr Wrayburn, that you will not come into my
office; you have shown yourself insolent and insolent to me; you have
impeded and overreached me, and, if I can prevent you, I will.’

‘This is an insult,’ said Mr Wrayburn, staring at him.

‘An insult!’ said the Doctor. ‘You are mad. You cannot command me.’

‘You utter a disgrace to your profession,’ retorted the Doctor, with
a gesture of despondency, ‘and your fellow-practitioner.’

‘You are mistaken, sir. I beg your excuse. I am deeply mistaken.’

‘I beg your excuse, sir,’ said the Doctor. ‘I will never, never, never,
repeate an insult to your experience, nor to the recollection of your
friend and confiding female. You are a man of experience, and he is a
man of experience. You can command me, you can command him.’

‘And I beg your pardon, sir,’ said Mr Wrayburn, with a struggle, ‘I beg
your pardon. I would like to ask, who is the man you mean?’

‘The man I mean,’ said the Doctor, ‘is myself, Mr Wrayburn. I am
contemplating a scene of action at the theatre, which I think I see
in a play, of which I was a party. My friend Mr Rugg has directed me
to make some inquiries to the literary man at the Enquiries, as I
may say to the trouble of a gentleman that I should condescend to be
so much disturbed, and that I would rather be--’

‘So much disturbed as Mr Rugg?’ said the Doctor.

‘Sir. Yes. I think so.’

‘--That I should presume to say, that I think I see in a play, of
which I was a party, that I undertake to make that pretend to be a
conveyance for London, to which I am going to give an address, which I
have the pleasure of receiving, and which you can have the goodness to
hear. I think I see, sir, that you know best.’

‘I know best!’ cried Mr Wrayburn.

‘I think so, sir,’ said the Doctor, in an
====================
'I see a beautiful city and a brilliant people rising from this abyss, and, in their struggles to be truly free, in their triumphs and defeats, through long long to come, I see the evil of this time and of the previous time of which this is the natural birth, gradually making expiation for itself and wearing out.’

‘And you, sir?’

‘Awful swinish swarry!’ said the old man, dropping his voice.

‘Sir,’ returned Mr. Bumble, ‘the opinion of all the gentlemen in this room is--that we are as wise and as just as can be, and that all the evils of this time are our own doing, and must be fought out and
pursued. We are not afraid of saying, that whatever arises from within, must be under the control and
management of those who cultivate it, and must be borne by those who depend upon it.’

‘But if you were to say, sir,’ interposed Mr. Pickwick, with a glance of
warning, ‘that we would leave these regions, just as we had left them, if we
could--’

‘Could we?’ said the old man, staring at Mr. Weller, ‘if I could, sir!’

‘You are a generous old fellow, sir,’ replied Mr. Pickwick, in a tone of
exalted bitterness; ‘you are a virtuous man of great goodness. You have
done your duty.’

‘Duty!’ said the old man, with a solemnity that appeared very much his
deportment. ‘Mine indeed. Where I see injustice, I see it. Where I see it, I
must look. Where I haven’t got to at my time of life, I haven’t got to
at my time of life. And I tell you what, sir. When I look, I see a beggar.
That’s all.’

‘She is not to be considered on that account,’ said Mr. Pickwick,
looking hard at the old man, and pausing. ‘It is your duty, sir, to take
care that you do not expose her to unnecessary suffering. She is a young woman
of great promise, and I am persuaded that she will do very well; but I
warn you that she is very ill at heart.’

‘Impossible!’ exclaimed the old man, with emotion.

‘Yes,’ said Mr. Pickwick; ‘yes, yes; I fear she is ill at heart. I fear she
is troubled with some complaint of some kind. I have not a doubt of
that.’

‘I am sure, sir,’ said the old man, ‘I am sure. I fear I expose her to
too much suffering, sir. She is not of a tender age, sir. She has lived a very
long time. I fear she is old.’

‘I am sure,’ said Mr. Pickwick.

‘Indeed!’ said the old man. ‘Almost as long as myself. I am afraid I must
give way to old men dying out of years. I dare say you have been
here long, sir.’

‘Rather,’ said Mr. Pickwick.

‘Rather!’ said the old man. ‘Rather! I think I have been here
a long time, sir. I think I have seen many of these here old places,
dozens of times. I think I have seen enough of them, though, to know
that they are very bad adventures, very uncertain and difficult
haunts, very hard to move about. But I tell you this:--when I was a
child, I was as like my little fellow at present, as I hope I could
deserve to be. I hope I could do my duty faithfully, and do it well; and I
do my duty faithfully, and I will do it well. If I am a good fellow
to do my duty faithfully, and accomplish my purpose with a ready hand, I
thank Heaven I will!’ With that, he folded his arms tight on his chest, and
took a long breath, as if to bespeak a hearty reception in reply.

‘Well, well,’ said Mr. Pickwick, ‘you must be tired; we must take leave of
a friend who has been contending for that honour amongst us, and who
would seem to be exerting his utmost power, against all odds, to win the
====================
'I see a beautiful city and a brilliant people rising from this abyss, and, in their struggles to be truly free, in their triumphs and defeats, through long long to come, I see the evil of this time and of the previous time of which this is the natural birth, gradually making expiation for itself and wearing out.’

‘The twentieth year of my Lord,’ said the Patriarch, ‘I see the evils of time creeping into new growth. I see the bubbling up of the past, like a film, like a fire, like a stream, like a tide, like a change of
puddings, like a pestilence, like a blight. I see the spreading of the shadow of overhanging
clouds, and the dark convulsions of great storms, like a blight. I see the spreading of the
shadow of a rising mountain range, like a shadow on the sea-shore; and, from it to the
fore-ground, it encompases everything. I see the spreading of a blight upon everything
else; and, from it to the fore-ground, it covers everything. I see the lonely
wretch who would be his successor, hanging by the hair, like a ballad, and
looking, from it to the fore-ground, all of us, with the eyes of a stone, and
the mouth of a mouse, and the breathing of a dog, and the curves and features
of a face, and the shifting of a furious wring of iron and the breathing of a
damp flute, and the shaking of a hundred bedsteads, and the dripping of a
water-jug, and the tearing of a wind-mill, and the ringing of a hundred
bellows, and the spitting of a dozen hulks of wood together--and so forth. I
see the wretch dying in the shadow of death, surrounded by the rosy light of
the fire--I remember his face, I know--and I seem to see a dancing
picture, with all its expression gone, with his body growing numb as if
it had been frosted into a pall, until I stick it out and see him at rest,
with his red eyes peering out at the sky, and his whole frame bending to
the ground as if it had been frozen.

‘This is the way of things,’ said I.

The Patriarch, discoursing as he shook his thick stick in his left hand,
drooped to one knee on the ground, and, with his right hand in his pocket,
took up the long, narrow-sided, shrivelled stick, and put it in his mouth.

‘This is the way of things,’ he said, in a low voice; ‘and you must go on, and
do the rest, or you will be idle.’

‘Thank you, sir,’ I replied, dropping the stick, and feeling in my pocket
that it was time to take a little change of air.

‘Some more change of air!’ he cried, in a furious way. ‘What!’

‘I will run about as I like,’ said I, ‘until I begin to bear the pain of
breakfast.’

‘Bare!’ he cried, in a loud voice. ‘What a hungry-looking boy!’

‘No. I will do as I like,’ I answered. ‘I won’t go out, I trust.’

‘You have a very noisy way with you,’ he muttered. ‘What do you mean by
baring?’

‘I mean, sir,’ I replied, in a tone of placid benevolence, ‘that you will not
bare me.’

‘You have a very noisy way with you,’ he muttered again. ‘What do you
mean by it, boy?’

‘I mean,’ I answered, with a placid ‘that you will not bare me.’

‘You have a very noisy way with you, boy,’ he muttered once more, ‘and
you’re a very quiet fellow.’

‘Here’s the breakfast for you!’ said the Patriarch. ‘You mean to
say that you’ve no idea how heavy it is?’

‘Really, sir,’ I answered, with a cheerful truth, ‘I don’t know that I
mean to; but I am sure I don’t mean to.’

‘
====================
'I see a beautiful city and a brilliant people rising from this abyss, and, in their struggles to be truly free, in their triumphs and defeats, through long long to come, I see the evil of this time and of the previous time of which this is the natural birth, gradually making expiation for itself and wearing out.’

His face was so very fixed and silent that it was not until he had been looking about for a little while that he ventured to
tread lightly on.

‘Not,’ he said, ‘that I have any personal cause for anxiety or fear: far from it. But, supposing I had, how
could I ever know but one thing at a time!’

‘And yet you have a brother?’ said his brother.

‘My dear brother,’ said Mr Meagles, shaking him by the hand, ‘I have a brother, a
great and noble purpose. I will call him up now the moment is come, and I will tell
you his history.’

‘You are glad to hear it. I have heard it all, and I solemnly swear it. I have
been engaged--for a term of years, I dare say--to bring you the intelligence
that will form the rudiments of a perfectly free life. I have brought you information
that will form the rudiments of a perfectly free life, and information that
will form the rudiments of a perfectly free family.’

‘You have no brother, Mr Meagles. Have you? No? No.’

‘Have you, however, one great and lasting purpose?’

‘I have.’

‘And what is that which you tell me is the object of your search?’

‘That I may be truly free in faith and honour, and truly devoted to you and
your friend.’

‘You are very good.’

‘To tell you the truth, I have been disappointed by many men, and I
have been disappointed by many women, of whom I have had quite a great
disparity. I have not been perfect. I have not always been easy and kind. But
I have been--and I hope I have become--quite a good husband.’

He was as reconciled as a ministering angel; soothing him and soothing his
fleeting anger, and soothing the flow of his infirmities. The more unreserved
he appeared, the more convinced he seemed of his truth.

‘I have been disappointed by many men, and I have been disappointed by
some women, of whom I have had quite a great discrepancy. I cannot
describe them all; I cannot use an enumeration. Let me see you through it.
You have not been happy in your home life, Mr Meagles.’

‘I have been under a restraint. That I said at the time, with all my heart,
that I was not. I have been unhappy in my marriage (I have a fine
wife), and I have been unhappy in the circles where I have been. I can’t
pretend to be perfect. I can’t pretend to know everything.’

‘Well, well,’ said Mr Meagles, ‘you can’t know everything. You have not
all been successful; you have not all been devoted to each other. You have
not all been exposed to all that I have been through my life. You have
not been exposed to the pressures of a life of constant disappointment.
I don’t say that; I say it, deliberately. I cannot say it with the
same feeling. For myself, I am unhappy. I cannot say, at the same time,
“I have been disappointed by all.” I say, instead, “I have been
disappointed by nothing.”’

‘And you are sure that you can be a perfectly happy husband?’

‘I am. I have no hope.’

‘And you are sure that you can be a perfectly happy son?’

‘I am. I have no hope.’

The pleasing quality of Mr Meagles’s manner was revived by his
having said, ‘Quite so.’

‘I hope your daughter may be happy?’

‘I hope so. I have no idea of her happiness. I am sure she is
delightful.’

‘The family name?’

‘Happily,’ said Mr Meagles, ‘yes.’

====================
'I see a beautiful city and a brilliant people rising from this abyss, and, in their struggles to be truly free, in their triumphs and defeats, through long long to come, I see the evil of this time and of the previous time of which this is the natural birth, gradually making expiation for itself and wearing out.’

‘But,’ she interrupted, ‘it is to be hoped that you never will wear out.’

With a return of the old dispirited frown, she shook her head with that look of quiet resignation
which so well satisfied her, and went on with her work.

‘It is not,’ said Nell, looking up again and again, ‘that I am ungrateful or ungrateful to the
people who have done so much for me, or that I have done so little. It is not even
that; for those who have done so much, have done so little. But what I have
done is, to show that I may be worthy of their confidence. That has been
done. And if I can show them that I am worthy of their confidence, even
that shall be my happiness.’

Her homely figure and her easy light manner had long ago won her admirers.
But, here she was again, perfectly in the old place, doing it again, and
looking as like a woman who had been a child at heart all her life, as she
could ever be.

‘But I have shown them,’ said the schoolmaster, ‘that no one can doubt
that that handsome boy who is called Quilp, is really Quilp. And that he has
been the death of me and of his parents and his sister, and of himself, and
of his children, and of himself, and of his grandchild, and of his
sister's child--and that he never could be loved, nor yet had been loved
since his birth.’

‘And why then he never loved himself?’ inquired the other.

‘To be sure he never did.’

‘He was always loved,’ said the schoolmaster, ‘and to be sure he never loved
himself.’

‘The dear old lady who is so good to me,’ said Nell, ‘took him into her
heart, and he died as he lived. He was her favourite child, and she was
miserable and irritable. He was her favourite child, and she cried when he
cried, and wept when he was happy, and wept when he was sad. He was her
book, her music, her pictures and stories. He told them all.’

‘He told them all,’ repeated the other, with a look of pity at the privilege
her favourite child enjoyed.

‘He told you,’ pursued the schoolmaster, ‘that the first time his dear
old sister saw him (for it had been a long time since she had seen him), he
was glad to find she was not well. He told you that he hoped it might not
be long before she recovered. He said he hoped she might not be long
journeyed. He said it was the happiest moment of his life.’

‘That was not what I said to you,’ said the other, ‘but what he said to
you.’

‘And there was another story, not quite so well known, which my uncle told
you. It was this. It may be wanting in embellishment, but it had more
period than mine. It concerned myself. It concerned himself, you will
please to recall, a thousand times.’

‘Meaning himself and not you?’

‘I was his daughter. He had been his daughter many years, but he had been
her husband, and she had loved him, and he had loved her, and there
was no denying that. He had never loved another, and he had never
fond of another. He could have loved her dearly, but he had never
fond of another.’

‘You were his favourite child,’ said the other, ‘and he loved you, and
there was something in that, which attracted his attention.’

‘Was it you, uncle?’

‘It was I, and he knew it.’

‘You were a very pretty girl your own age, with rather bright eyes and
rather red hair, and if I could have seen her I think I would have
tried to kiss her, and I think I should have
====================
'I see a beautiful city and a brilliant people rising from this abyss, and, in their struggles to be truly free, in their triumphs and defeats, through long long to come, I see the evil of this time and of the previous time of which this is the natural birth, gradually making expiation for itself and wearing out.’

Strange to say, but equally strange to those who knew him, his eyes had been on this place all the time he had been
there. The light which had begun to fade on the city of London, and the light which
had begun to fade on the hill-side, had been the light of a day; and his eyes,
with that great change of face that had witnessed its completion, had been like those
of a scientist, who were resigned to their fate. They had been with him all day,
and they had a settled purpose now.

He had taken leave of Mr Dorrit shortly afterwards, and had promised to come with
him to the bank-chase, and to report back. He had not yet planted himself
in his own little room, when Little Dorrit opened the door.

He was, as usual, shabby, sallow, and ugly: with a face like a face in
adolescence, and a manner like a manner in its decline. His white hair, which
stood upright in his head, was grey, twisted over that part of his face
which was dotted with patches of yellow and black. He wore no neckerchief, but
had rather a loose flat shirt-collar upon it. He was so exceedingly grave and
fixed that his left arm looked as if it had been amputated from him from
birth.

Little Dorrit took him into her arms, and they walked away together. Mr
Dorrit was grave too, and spoke in such a low voice that she could have
taken him anywhere.

‘I have had,’ said Little Dorrit, ‘a great many things, gentlemen, in my time
here; but I never thought it, gentlemen, nor ever anyone could have told
me so, unless you have had a life like mine.’

‘I have had a life of exceeding satisfaction, my dear,’ said Mr Dorrit
taking her into his protection. ‘I never thought anything else.’

‘I have been told many things, gentlemen,’ said Little Dorrit, ‘and I wish
you to hear them all.’

‘The rumours,’ said Mr Dorrit, stopping, with his head thrown
back in the coach-house, and his dark eyes looking at one another,
‘are, at the utmost, ridiculous. They are nothing more than ordinary
rumour, nothing more than the natural effects of overcrowding and
disturbance. Nothing more.’

‘But it would seem to be the only true thing I ever heard,’ said Little Dorrit.
‘You never have heard any other.’

Mr Dorrit could not help laughing at the absurdity of the question.

‘It would appear, my love,’ said Little Dorrit, ‘that you have had a
long talk with Mr Gowana, and know he is waiting on you to-night?’

‘He is waiting on me,’ said Mr Dorrit, laughing outright this time; ‘I
cannot help laughing, my dear.’

‘To-night?’ said Little Dorrit.

‘To-night, my dear,’ said Mr Dorrit. ‘No, my dear. It does not look
like it. But I shall be glad to have the honour, if you will allow me to
excuse my saying that, after you.’

He could not help laughing again, and it was cut short by the admission
that he had been accustomed to this custom, and had once been accustomed
to laugh to it in prison; but he said it was natural and good
funny to laugh to it in jail also, and he laughed to it now, with the
usual mischievousness, in the prison with no jail, with the usual
incapacity of the part, and with the usual pleasure of the play.

‘I am very glad,’ said Little Dorrit, ‘to have this honour to observe
you. It is quite a pleasure to me to see you again, my dear. What have
you been doing?’

‘Attending the play?’

‘Oh no, not attending. I have been reading.’

‘Is that all?’

‘Yes, yes. I
====================
'I see a beautiful city and a brilliant people rising from this abyss, and, in their struggles to be truly free, in their triumphs and defeats, through long long to come, I see the evil of this time and of the previous time of which this is the natural birth, gradually making expiation for itself and wearing out.’

‘The last time of my life you have seen my mother?’

‘She is dead.’

‘As of old,’ said the man, with his hands in his pockets, and his eyes looking into space, ‘she was a woman
brought low to a parrot in the parrot’s cage, who became a woman again by
mutilation.’

‘You are not afraid of me now?’

‘No. I am not afraid of you.’

‘Then she is thankfully gone, and I have hope that a time may come when she will
return. May I ask you, sir, if you have any little influence with the
people of London, and if you have any little interest in the people of London?’

‘I have a certain property in London,’ said Mr Boffin, ‘which I think
might be worth a hundred and fifty pounds to you. I have a certain
property in London, with a capital of one thousand pounds, to which
maybe you might like to see. I have a certain property in London, with a
capital of one hundred and fifty pounds, to which maybe you might like to
see.’

‘I will send the right answer, sir,’ said the Secretary, shaking his head.

‘Mind that I beg your pardon, Mr Boffin. I thought I had said that I was
not going to see her. Where does that piece of property lie?’

‘Where does that piece of property lie?’

‘In your hands, sir.’

‘Yes, sir.’

‘I am not wealthy. I am not good. I am not subtle. I am not wise. I am
not spiteful. If you knew all about me, sir,--for I am not Professor
Boffin’s student; I have not been bred a Professor; I have not been taught
a Professor; I am a poor man with a poor name.’

‘A poor man with a poor name?’ said the Secretary, stopping in his
listening with a sigh.

‘The same as for a poor woman’s name. For a poor woman’s name, sir, you have
not only given me the name of Boffin, but the name of Rokesmith.’

‘Another poor woman?’

‘Sir, another poor woman. A little child. A little child. But you hold your
tongue. You have no better claim to your tongue than another poor woman has
to her.’

‘But she is yours, sir,’ said the Secretary, with an effort.

‘Sir, she is mine. I can keep it in my pocket, sir, just as I can put it out
of mine. But I must speak. Now, I am poor, sir. I want to know what you
have to say to me.’

‘I have nothing to say to you,’ returned the Secretary, with an effort.
‘I want to know--’

‘But you have had enough of the subject, sir, to know it is not worth
asking.’

‘Not worth asking, sir,’ said Mr Boffin, ‘for my part, at least, to
ask you--to ask you to forgive me this broken Englishness--’

‘To forgive me the broken Englishness of asking you, sir, that
you may forgive me this broken Englishness of asking you to forgive
my asking you to forgive my asking you to forgive my asking you to
favour me with those words I used to say on the previous occasion to
bring my poor self to an understanding.’

‘I can do no such thing,’ said the Secretary.

‘Can’t do it, sir,’ assented Mr Boffin, with his former effort, ‘but I
will still ask you to forgive me this broken Englishness of asking you
to forgive my asking you to forgive my asking you to forgive my asking
you to forgive my asking you to say what I used to say on the previous
occasion to bring my poor
====================
