CHAPTER 1

The child’s eyes were fixed upon the old man’s face.

‘You’re a good boy,’ said the old man, ‘and you always are. I can’t
see you not to have a good boy about me. I always see you to have a
good boy about you.’

‘And you?’

‘Why, you see,’ said the old man, ‘if you’re good enough to keep a
good boy about you, they can’t keep you out of money. They can’t make
you take ‘em up. Not to mention that at the same time they shan’t keep
you in it! Why, I’d give all I have, and tear ‘em up.’

The child looked from him to the old man, and from him to the child, and
from the child to the old man, and from the old man to the child, and from
the child to the old man, and from the child to the old man, and from the child
to the old man, and from the child to him, and from the old man to himself, and
from him to himself, and so on forever, without changing his position.

‘Don’t speak of it,’ said the old man reprovingly. ‘Speak of it. I will not
be moved.’

The child looked from him to the old man, and from him to the child, and
from the child to the old man, and from the old man to himself, and from
the child to himself, and from the new man, and from the new man to himself,
and from the old man to himself, and so on forever, without changing his place.

‘What is this?’ he demanded, when he had heard it.

‘You are frightened, father.’

‘Why?’ said the old man, with a fierce determination of voice; ‘why?’

‘Because you don’t know what is in store for you. You know how old I am, and
how much I love you. You know that I have been a prisoner in a dungeon
since a little child, and that I have been ill, and have been broken, and
have cried, and have thought of loving one as kind as I do.’

‘Hush!’ cried the old man, ‘you can’t conceal from me. What I am, I say with
everything; but when I say that I love you, I say it with your whole
heart; don’t say it, don’t say it!’

‘Ah, father! I love you!’

‘I used to say so,’ returned the old man, ‘but I used to be a light. Now
I am a heavy sleeper, and often thought I was. I used to dream that I
was a lady, and that I used to be a governess, and that I used to be a
beautiful woman, and that I was a great deal in want of a governess. But I
never was such a governess as I am now, and I never shall be. I never shall
be anything like what I used to be. I never shall be anything beside what I
used to be, and I never shall be anything beside you, dear boy.’

‘Don’t talk of being in want of a governess,’ said the boy with a
frightful struggle.

‘I used to say I was,’ returned the old man, with his hand to his nose
and his chin, ‘but I never was such a governess as I am now, and I never
shall be. I never shall be anything beside what I used to be, and I never
shall be. If I seem a governess, I have not been such a governess
as I used to be, and I will show you that I mean it.’

The boy, as he looked up at the old man with his loud eager eyes,
stretched out his hands to them, as if to hold them up to show his love,
and slowly walked away. The child looked after him, afraid of him, but
also afraid of himself, and after a time stopped in a place of
charity to be watched.

‘But you’re a good boy,’ said the old man
====================
CHAPTER 1

In his railway carriage, which was the pride of the Rugg family, Mr Mortimer
Lightwood had been for some weeks past a professor of law at the College of
Totherest, near the village of Rochester. He had been, for this distinguished
man, a kind of unofficial courier of instructions to the chambers of the
great Pretender of that time: as the courier of my name, who had been
constantly coming round the country for the last twenty years. Mr Lightwood
had no other post or employment, and had, for this distinguished
man, become, for that distinguished man, the unofficial herald of the
newly-arrived Settlers.

Mr Mortimer Lightwood sat upon a set of steps at the College, far enough off
from the village that he might have felt comfortable in the sight of all
the men, women, children, and uncleans. He was a little high of the rest, and
had a big watch-chain, like a large watch-button, round his neck, and
had a pair of pipes hanging round his neck, and his coat buttoned up at
the same time.

The features of this celebrated man were his head, which was bald, and
his legs, which were not so long that they would have been long for
other men. His face was thin and handsome, and it was very bald. He had
very fine brown hair, which, ending in twin waves on the top of his
head, had a natural air of being rather glossy. His appearance, all
together, constituted a kind of costume for a summer's day.

He was a little man in a pair of black gaiters, and a greatcoat, and a
shawl. He carried his black gaiters over his shoulders, over his arms,
over his legs, and over his arms and legs again, and mounted, on his
knees, with the greatcoat and shawl. He carried his shawl under his arm,
and was as dry as a pail of water.

Mr Lightwood was a tall, meagre man, with a meagre beard and too much
black hair. It was a summer evening when he appeared before the late
R. W., leaning his walking-stick against the henhouse-door, and brooding
over his right-hand half-way to the bar of the College. It was a sad
paradise.

‘Mr W., sir,’ said Mr Lightwood, ‘this is a somewhat avenging pleasure
that I can accept.’

Mr W. grunted in assent. ‘Aye,’ said Mr Lightwood, ‘I know it. It is my
right to say that I have a claim to render you some service, sir.’

Mr W. looked round as he spoke, and deliberately laid his hand upon his
pocket-book and pulled out a little list. ‘I believe this is the last
collection of the late Rokesmith’s that I shall ever be permitted to retain. I
have never been able to make up my mind to part with the property, and I
shall be very, very sorry to part with it.’

‘Damme!’ said the late Mr W., ‘that’s right!’

‘It is a very sorrowful thing,’ said Mr Lightwood, ‘to have the
fallen star of a man in need of your protection, darkened by you in
his own camp. I am sorry to have this day been able to say that I never
could bear this light, and that I hoped one day I should be able to bear
this light long ago.’

‘Mr W.’ said Mr W. with a sigh, ‘beggin’ to say so. Beggin’ to say so! Why, if
I wos ever found worthy to be patronized as I wos, I wos a good deal
better at the time than I wos now!’

Mr W. looked vacantly at the pile of names, with his eyes on the
fire. After looking at it a few times, he nodded and said, ‘It looks
like a playin’’; and had no idea, at that moment, what had been the
matter, nor how it was to be traced to the fire.

‘The number of names is,’ said Mr Lightwood, at length, ‘fourteen.’

‘A sad spectacle,’ said Mr W. ‘
====================
CHAPTER 1

The children were scattered in their many holes and corners among the
outer rooms of the house.  The old woman, long accustomed to live
with the children, lay on a sofa, with one of her legs entwined in a
large cloak, and the other tied up in a shawl.  The two children were
strutting under their aunt's arm, and their eyes were fixed upon
the aunt as she sat before the fire.  One of the two little
girls, who was the oldest of the party, was strolling uneasily among
the children, and making her way with her to the aunt’s bed; while
the other was as yet oblivious of the fact that there was anybody by, and
that she was the one who ought to have observed the visitation.

‘Good gracious, Miss Wade,’ exclaimed the old woman in a burst of despair,
‘how do you do? I am so wretched!’

‘How?’ said Miss Wade, in a voice of promptness.  ‘How?’

‘How should you know?’ returned the old woman, in a voice of despair and
silence.  ‘How should I know!  How could I know it? how could I
know it!’

‘Well,’ said Miss Wade, ‘we must be going.  How do you think the
children are?’

‘Deafening awful!’ cried the child, with a horrible shriek.  ‘They
are all gone.’

‘We must be going then,’ said the aunt, ‘I will send for them
tomorrow.  What name?  Do come and speak to me at the door.’

‘Don’t stand in the doorway,’ interposed the child, ‘it would be a
heartless thing of you to tell me.’

‘Dearest love,’ said the old woman, ‘do come and speak to me at the
door.’

‘Dearest love,’ returned the child, in a flutter of despair and
silence.  ‘But I feel as if you were not there, and I have not been
here the last two nights.’

‘Then how did you come here?’ interrupted the aunt, with a slight
motion of her hand towards the fire.

‘I came here, aunt,’ said the child, ‘through the riddle which was put
upon me by the very stupid man who dislikes me the most.  That man
is the friend of my poor mother, and of poor little Jacob.  He dislikes me
the most.  He dislikes me the most.  He has not half enough to do to
render his dislike acceptable, I fancy, to anybody.’

‘My dear child!’ said the old woman, ‘how can you talk such nonsense!
You know the danger you are in.’

‘I know it very well.’

‘And yet you can’t be sorry to leave the dear old place, and come
here!’

‘I, too, can’t be very sorry,’ said the child vehemently.  ‘I, too,
think it’s very pretty.  But I’d rather go away than remain here.  Why I
do stay here, you see, you’ll never know, sir.’

‘Well,’ said the old woman, ‘I have no doubt you will.  You can leave
me the most money you have, and go and live somewhere else.  I
won’t lose you.  You’re a good young girl, my dear.  Come!  You have
said your little heart’s desire.  Now I’ll think of it.’

The child drew closer and nearer to the old woman’s face, and thrust
her face close to hers.  The old woman faintly smiled, but only as
if she had done for the time to forget her little dreams of the
night.

‘Dearest love,’ said the child again, ‘I have no right to say I am sorry
for this.  I have no right to say I can be sorry for this.  Who else can
be sorry?  Dear, dear dear!’

‘You will think better of
====================
CHAPTER 1

The child had been long confined, and had suffered a great deal. The
miserable personage who could no more suffer from her sufferings than the
others, would have been glad to see her. There had been a time, when it
was her wish alone, that she had been cheerful and contented. There was
nothing new, in the nature of things, to be forgiven, and she had been
a silent, obedient, obedient little wife to Mr and Mrs Boffin.

She was called at length, in the post-chaise, to the little carriage stand
on which they were seated, to such a person as Mr Boffin; but she
entered that her husband would never forget her, unless he could say
favorites to her name.

‘Laura,’ said Mr Boffin, ‘the young lady, as you name, is one of the
ladies here.’

‘Yes, sir,’ replied the child.

Mr Boffin, without entering on any verbal conversation, drew his
shoulder-chair close to hers, and sat down, with his eyes intently
fixed upon the child.

‘He’s a-smokin’ his pipe,’ said Mr Boffin.

‘Good-night, sir,’ said the child.

Mr Boffin inhaled a sigh, and exhaled a sigh-like smoke.

‘Countess,’ said Mr Boffin, ‘how’s old?’

Countess was about seventeen or eighteen, and had a kind of way of
declining to be informed of the age of Mr Boffin.

‘She’s a-shakin’ at thirteen,’ said the person of the house.

‘How’s SHE a-smokin’ at thirteen?’ said the person of the house.

There was a rustling and talking in one corner of the room.

‘Countess,’ said Mr Boffin, ‘how’s YOU a-smokin’ at thirteen?’

Countess was a little creature, and seemed to have considered it
necessary to consider it necessary.

‘Countess,’ said Mr Boffin, ‘how’s YOU a-smokin’ at thirteen?’

Countess had a thought or two, which may be taken as respecting
the person of the house. On looking intently at the person of the
house, Countess said, in a very slowly revolving manner, now
smoke, now pipe, now both, and in the midst of all these transitions,
never once holding her tongue.

‘Laura!’ said Mr Boffin, without moving.

‘Mr Boffin,’ said the person of the house in a quieter voice, ‘how
could you be so unkind as to regard me as your child?’

‘Oh! It’s not my fault,’ said Mr Boffin, a little aggravated.

‘Don’t look like it, sir,’ rejoined the person of the house. ‘I
welcome countess, welcome to the house. But don’t you take the
intention of the young man, or he’ll find me here to take his tea.’

‘We’re too old for that,’ said Mr Boffin; ‘we must have a wolunteer.’

[‘And a wolunteer,’ observed the person of the house to Mrs Boffin, ‘is
wolunteering at thirteen, and I will not be turned out.’)

‘Countess,’ said Mr Boffin, with a serious look, ‘how do you come
there?’

Countess had not the slightest notion.

‘Countess,’ said Mr Boffin, ‘how do you come here? Countess,’ said Mr
Boffin, with a serious look again, and holding it up in the air as it
collapsed, ‘how do you come here? Countess, how do you come here?
Hush! Countess, hush!’ And then fell the looking-glass; and the
person of the house, in sootheful sound, said, ‘Countess, countess.’


====================
CHAPTER 1

‘What is this, Arthur?’ said Mr Meagles.

‘Why, a child of nine or ten years old, and with some half-grown
family!’ ejaculated Mr Meagles, rubbing his hands with extreme relish. ‘And
he’s the wonder of the world.’

‘Why, what’s the wonder of the world?’ said Mr Meagles, with his
head thrown back in a proud manner. ‘What do you think of him?’

‘Oh, I think he’s _the_ wonder of the world,’ said Mr Meagles. ‘The
world as works, and the child as sleeps.’

‘I think he’s a very extraordinary child indeed,’ said the old gentleman.

‘There’s a very extraordinary boy,’ said Mr Meagles to himself, when he had
finished speaking, ‘with a face like a lark, and his mouth like a
cur.’

‘He is an extraordinary boy,’ repeated the old gentleman approvingly.

‘He is, indeed,’ said Mr Meagles, with his voice still a little dropped.
‘Occasionally, I--I’ll be plain with you, Arthur, I think I rather thought
he was a little boy.’

‘Don’t say that,’ said the old gentleman.

‘Now,’ said Mr Meagles, leaning his left arm heavily upon the table, while
with the right he rested himself on his right leg--‘now, I--I say we are
friends; don’t say that, Arthur.’

‘_I_ don’t mean that,’ said the old gentleman feebly.

‘We are friends,’ said Mr Meagles. ‘He is my servant, and he accompanies me
on all my errands. For example, on this one, Arthur, when I wanted to
make some little change at home; on this errand, I found that he had a
little change, too, in him.’

‘Was he called by his right name?’ asked the old gentleman, with a
shiver.

‘Why, be consistent,’ said Mr Meagles, ‘or you’ll be disappointed.
He was named after a certain person who had given him the pleasure of
being called by that name.’

‘Yes,’ said the old gentleman.

‘He was a very young man then,’ said Mr Meagles. ‘He was about my own
years old, and he was from Bevis Marks.’

‘He was known to the family, I believe?’

‘I think so,’ said Mr Meagles. ‘He was known to the family.’

‘Were you ever his tutor?’

‘I never had the pleasure of the honour of making that connection,’
rejoined Mr Meagles, with a cool and indifferent face. ‘He was a
very charming man, and he treated me with an aristocratic air. I owe
him many thanks for his patronage, and I look back to the days when
he had them.’

‘When you were a pupil,’ said the old gentleman, with a slight
disjointed laugh, ‘do you remember anything like it?’

‘Oh, yes,’ rejoined Mr Meagles. ‘Oh, yes, yes! Yes.’

‘I observe that he treated you with an aristocratic air, and I
notice that when he spoke of you, he always referred to you in
words of three syllables. Was he a pupil, then?’

‘No,’ said Mr Meagles, with another disjointed laugh. ‘I prefer to be
mentioned in the phrase, at Bevis Marks, and to say at home, and to
call you by your christian name of Beatrice.’

‘Was he a pupil of yours?’ said the old gentleman.

‘No,’ rejoined Mr Meagles, ‘no, he wasn’t; he was a pupil of some
other gentleman’s, but he never was a pupil of mine.’

‘How was he regarded?’

‘
====================
CHAPTER 1

The child had hardly time to collect and store what had happened, when a
carriage came up the yard of a poultry-market, straight on to the
direction of the poor old house in which she had been left alone.  There
was a deadness in the air, which chilled and sore her heart; and the
suddenness of it, and the consequent hurry of her thoughts, as they
were caught up in a wind that howled and roared, made the room bear
still.  She hurried into the shop, and was half dead, and could
find no money for a bottle of water, in which case there was a risk
of being carried to the house; but she had more hope of getting
out of it, through getting to the door quickly, than she had of
ever being alive.  This hope was more remarkable for being awakened
so suddenly than by any previous event of alarm or danger.

She could not pass the gate fast, so that, if she had been slower to
behold the good lady, she might have known when she came.  She was
so overcome, that she had time to glance at one of the two women
who were standing at the door, before she was certain of feeling her
eyes, even in her head.  One of them, however, had more minute
perception than the other, and looked fixedly at her when she raised
her voice.  The instant she raised hers, the woman turned her head as
if to stare at her, and uttered a scream, which she did not then
behold.

It was scarcely enough to be stunned with so much bewilderment,
and terror, and be made the subject of such a curiosity, as to be
wondered, among the multitude of birds, what had caused this girl to be
so near a stoney quarry, and what could have made her so frightened?  It
was scarcely enough to say that she had not a moment’s repose, and that she
had a violent fear of all sudden occurring.  She was young and fresh;
how could she have been startled?  It was scarcely more than that, for the
woman had no very vivid idea of the real state of the case; and when she
spoke with her, and tried to calm her, the woman was quite unable to do it.

‘Do you know anything about it?’ she asked, after repeating the question
several times, and giving up the matter in despair.

‘No,’ said Nell, trembling.  ‘There never was any news for me, and I didn’t
know what had happened.  It was as well I didn’t, for I should have been
extremely sorry for it.’

‘Well,’ said the man, ‘I suppose it must have been something very
extraordinary in that one.’

‘No,’ said the child, ‘it was nothing at all extraordinary, in fact.’

‘They supposed,’ said the man, ‘that it was some extraordinary thing?’

‘Yes,’ said the child, ‘they always said so.’

‘And now I wonder,’ said the man, ‘why they never told me what has
happened.’

‘Never!’ returned Nell.  ‘Oh dear no, never!’

‘It’s very strange,’ said the man, ‘I never thought a woman could be so
wretched.’

‘They always said,’ said the child, ‘that it was,’ repeated the woman.

‘And now I wonder,’ said the man, ‘why they never told me what will
happen.’

‘It’s very strange too; but perhaps it’s because they always said it!’
said the child, shaking her head.

‘Those things that people say, and things that seem to have happened,
and things that were never to happen, and things that were done, and
things that were not to happen, and things that were to happen, and
things that were not to happen--’

‘And other things--happens all the time--that people don’t talk about,’
interposed the woman.  ‘I tell you what, man,’ said the child, ‘I don’t
want to be a stumbling-block to
====================
CHAPTER 1

Mr. Pickwick was seated on the step of his own apartment, in a state of
the utmost excitement and surprise, when he was roused by hearing his
sister-in-law’s voice call out to him to ‘come out and shut the door!’

‘What’s the matter?’ said Mr. Pickwick, looking round.

‘Why, my dear sir,’ said Mrs. Leo Hunter, ‘you look rather stranger
this morning.’

‘Why so?’ inquired Mr. Pickwick.

‘Why, stranger’s stranger,’ said Mrs. Leo Hunter; ‘we both feel it.’

‘I can’t help it,’ said Mr. Pickwick.

‘You don’t mean to say you’re ill?’ said Mrs. Leo Hunter.

‘No, my dear sir,’ said Mr. Pickwick.

‘You look a awful deal worse,’ said Mrs. Leo Hunter.

‘A dreadful deal worse!’ said Mr. Pickwick.

‘How can I be otherwise?’ said Mrs. Leo Hunter, inaudibly. ‘What do you
mean?’

‘I feel,’ said Mr. Pickwick, ‘as if--as if--I had done something to
give myself up.’

‘I can’t help it,’ said Mrs. Leo Hunter; ‘we both feel it.’

Mr. Pickwick further expressed his opinion that this was an
unaccountable, unaccountable way of paying the money, and that it was
a very cruel and unhappy way of paying it; and that there never
was, nor ever could be, any such thing as an accidental or
on the spot kind of exaction.

‘Well, my dear sir,’ said Mrs. Leo Hunter, ‘and as we never, never
were any of those strangers under the sun, we had better leave this
little room, and come to the shop at once, and speak to your
agents.’

‘No, no,’ said Mr. Pickwick.

‘Come to the shop, come to the shop!’ ejaculated Mrs. Leo Hunter.
‘You’ll find your agents, and your agents will be your friends.
Good-morning, everybody.’

‘Good-morning, my dear sir.’

An awkward silence followed this announcement; and Mr. Pickwick was left
to satisfy his appetites with more of what he could get out of Mrs.
Leo Hunter, and to muse for a time as to what he would do, or how it
would all be.

‘Now, my dear sir,’ said Mrs. Leo Hunter, ‘the rest of the evening is a very
very unpleasant one, because of the gentlemen who are coming to see the
attorneys, and because of the gentlemen’s wives going out to dinner
very late. I feel quite uncomfortable, and I am afraid I ought to go out
night, and change my linen.’

‘Stay, stay!’ said Mr. Pickwick.

‘Yes, stay, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes,
yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes!--And, my dear sir, there’s a gentleman
coming to see the Attorneys, who I supposed you knew before this time
as the gentleman who made your name down in Somersetshire, and
as one of the Admiralty’s most distinguished officers.’

‘What do you make of him?’ inquired Mr. Pickwick innocently.

‘He is the very man you wanted, sir,’ said Mrs. Leo Hunter, ‘he
almost reminds me of the old man--the scratchy old man--that used to
carry the supper up and down.’

‘He looks like a skeleton,’ said Mr. Pickwick.

‘He reminds me of the long-lost relative,’ Mrs. Leo Hunter
observed, with some emotion, ‘of whom you once had a pretty
fanatic reception. It is very sudden and strange to have him in
this place, and I wish he had not been so nigh your heart as to leave

====================
CHAPTER 1

The dinner-table guests, who were all sitting at their separate tables before a
fountain of water, seemed to have no general conversation to exchange with
the main attraction of the whole scene.  The less accustomed
lookers-on, all seeming to be absorbed and absorbed, and to have
uncertain thoughts and feelings, were the most restless and
uncomfortable of the group; while those of the more expert and
experienced eye were inclined to be more interested and
appreciative.  There was silence between the two classes, and the
appearance of every object had a solemn and animated expression.

The circumstance that the table was a round one, and that there was
an unbroken line of chairs and end tables, made a profound impression on
the crowded place.  There was a general likeness of something on the
wall of the room, and as such the spectator might have supposed that
the wall was the boundary of the room, and every member of the
concourse had a right to occupy that position.  Yet, the real
concourse was not so clear cut in this respect, and the fact that no
one particular figure was conspicuous, did not change the fact that
every object had a seat at the head of the table, and every man seemed
to be trying whether he should place himself upon that throne or
distance.  It was a part of the charm of the occasion to have that
charm fall upon his own person as he sat at the head of the table, and
there beheld that his fellow-travellers, equally with those who were
already seated there, began to be concerned in such questions as
the time of setting off, the clothes to be worn under the table, the
appearance of all the plates, and the like affairs.  There were at
the table a dozen or so of the very best plates of various materials,
and while plates were being arranged some one or other of the
continent' s most beautiful and exquisite dishes of meat would be
identified by some gleam of its precious taste.  It was a very
beautiful and charming thing to behold the indignant amazement and
affection of the travelling public, when they should be provided with
plates, and be ordered to partake of plates, on the very first
occasion of being admitted to the enjoyment of that most
gracious and gracious of all pleasures:  and it was a very moving
thing to hear them, when they arrived at the admirable objects
they sought, exclaiming aloud, ‘_now I look at him!’ and then to have
the plates removed, and to be informed that he must take his turn
upon the plate; and to be sent back to the dreary place of his
former station, with the plate in his hand, and the little plate
in his pocket--until he thought better of it, and the time came
when he was to take his turn again, and the party should triumphantly
recollect how he had done that day.

And now, at last, they reached the town of Dingley Dell, which was
in the midst of a great confusion, and where, in addition to the
fills and bottles, there were silver bullets and ball-shells, and other
articles of warlike manufacture, great as the bullets and the shells, and
the powder and the fire-powder, and the burning steel, were, all together,
the most extensive and wonderful munitions of war that the
world has ever witnessed.

‘Here they are, sir!’ said Mr Henry Gowan, calling out to the travelling
public.  ‘Here they are!  Here’s the men, and the powder and the fire-
powder and all the rest.  All ready to go.’

‘All right, sir, all right!’ cried a deep voice from the trenches.  ‘We
will not lose another moment.’

‘The trenches are not far off, sir,’ said Mr Henry Gowan, surveying the
weapon by the barrel and lamp-light; ‘we have passed the open fields
here, and are now in the midst of the woods.  The opposite defences
been in course of defence, and we are still far from them.’

With that, and with a violent struggle for breath, Mr Henry Gowan,
sensing that he was about to be put through one of the most
comprehensive processes of the stage, produced his spectacles,
held them up, and looked round.

Two machine-gun nests, each with a square flame, were visible in the
groves, and
====================
CHAPTER 1. The Court Enters a Judgment
Regarding the Property of a Lamed David, who, against the will of his
father and against the earnest entreaties of his mother, was
released from prison, in wilful blindness, in an unlawful haste
and in an unmerited manner, in a place called the King’s Bench
Prison, which was, in the vulgar tongue of the lawyers,
the Court of Common Pleas, or the Common Pleas in the County
Middlesex, a Courtyard.

The common pleas of the County Middlesex, in their superior courts,
presented to all the prisoners, on such passages of time as
the prisoners passed in or out of their cells, and, when those
passages were very short, were passed in and out of their cells
several times in the course of a year. It was a part of the common
pleas to have an open cell for prisoners; but it was a highly ornamental
feature that the prisoners, when those passages were very long,
had often a great advantage of time in their hands. The prisoner’s
time in King’s Bench Prison was from morning to night: and when he was
in the interval, it was from night to day again; and when he was on
the guard, it was from night to night again. The time in King’s
Bench was divided among several mechanical instruments, such as a
telescope, an iron toothpick, a smelter, and an iron-sawed lever,
each of which had its own independent little black pudding in its
pocket, and each was well known to its particular acquaintance
besides. Some of the prisoners’ time was appropriated to the
conversation of the turnkeys and other prisoners about their meals,
and to the introduction of one or other prisoner’s story, and
to be signed and dated by the turnkey himself. The prisoner who had
the misfortune to have his name engraved upon the door-post, was
usually invited to make some introductory remarks at the
breakfast-table, and was always besought and invited to do so. On
the freedom of the turnkeys, and the natural goodness of the prisoner
that waited upon them, the prisoner sat under confinement, so
that, whenever it happened to occur to him to lift his eyes from
the table, he happened to see the turnkey’s eye light the candle, and
he invariably concluded from that circumstance, that the turnkey
had never seen the prisoner. On the natural goodness of the turnkeys,
and the natural utility of the prisoner, and the natural good-
nature of the turnkeys themselves, and the natural cleanliness of the
prison, and the natural affection of the turnkeys and other prisoners,
and the natural carriage and conversation of the prisoner, and
the natural dignity of the turnkeys, and the natural benevolence of the
prison, and the natural pride and simplicity of the prisoner, and
the natural honor and pride and dignity of the turnkeys, and the
natural honor and pride and humility of the prisoner, and the
natural maliciousness and derision of the turnkeys, and the natural tears
of the turnkeys, and the natural ignorance and malice of the turnkeys,
and the natural gratitude of the prisoner, and the natural tears of the
prisoner, and all the rest of it, above all things, and all the rest of
it.

The turnkeys, as a body, never showed feelings in the usual way. They
had been told not to write a letter-head, but to let the prisoner have
his own way for the moment. So, they sat, in default of instructions,
sitting silent, until the prisoner took his breakfast.

It was a busy time. The turnkeys got him off the lock, and left him
free to open his eyes, and make the best of it. But he did so
for a minute or two, and then, as he was walking along the
courtyard by the prison-door, he thought of the turnkeys, and the
letter-writing, and the prisoner’s portrait, and all the other
moments he had lost. He thought how one of them had told him the
prisoner’s story, and how the prisoner had been brought to the
trial, and how he had been brought out upon trial, and all that had
followed; and he thought how the prisoner had changed, as he
had changed, and how the prisoner’s life had been changed, and how he
had worked, and how he had changed very differently since then, and all
that had happened.

The
====================
CHAPTER 1

The report of the commissioners of the Bank of England languished in the waiters’
chairs for some weeks afterwards. One of them, an old draughtsman with a
bull’s-eye on his cap, who had commanded the army into private
disgrace, and who had never been heard of since--he had been so low
upon the heads of all the regulars that his gravestone had said he
was ‘a retired private.’

The other, a tall amiable personage, who had commanded the navy into
private disgrace, and who had never been heard of since--he had been so
low upon the heads of all the regulars that his gravestone had said
he was ‘a retired private.’

These three, with their report-books, escorted the Grand Master and his
advisers about the place where the unfortunate William Shakespeare had been
found, and where the unhappy Snigsworth had been afterwards
unceremoniously buried.

He was now in a state of great agitation. The humiliation and disgrace of
retiring from the fame and honour of his fame were not to be
brought about by one man; but, by means of a series of unlucky
occurrences, he bore it forward to a crisis of which he was half
comfortable, and half ashamed. On the one hand, he had a neglected
acquaintance with the renowned Rotterdam dealer, whose notoriety begended
his long career as one of the most gallant in the City, and whose
reputation was as warmly esteemed as his reputation was respected; on the
other hand, he had a neglected acquaintance with the renowned Amsterdam
dressmaker, whose reputations were as worthless as her books, and whose
infamy was as dependent on one mistaken head as another had been. The
difficulties of his conduct, as he supposed that they stemmed from a
failed speculation on the part of his creditors, were various, and varied
with a variety of half-truths, and gross distortions. He knew that
he had no business with two amiable and accomplished ladies of the
bar; but he supposed that if they would let him have a little of their
influence, the money would be well spent. He found it a difficult thing to be
deluded into the belief that he could do anything for them; but he believed
he could, and did.

His report was received with unusual interest, and with no small
particularity. It seemed to satisfy everybody, that there was a good
chance of something turning up in the future. Whether it was the right
time, or the right place, or the right man, or the right thing to do,
he did not say.

‘Mr Mortimer,’ said Mr Boffin, ‘I have some information for you.’

‘Sir,’ said that gentleman, ‘you may want to begin with the fact that I
have lived in a house in Bath, where a very elegant Scotch dinner is
dishpaned annually, and in which there is not much choice dining, but
everything to be ordered.’

‘Then, sir, you will be ready in a quarter of an hour, or half an
hour, to receive your commission, which is the compliment of my
disposition to you, and to which I have been solicitude enough in my
years to entreat the favour of your good friend and honoured
friend, Mr Twemlow.’

Mr Twemlow bowed, and requested to be informed where he was.

Mr Boffin, with his hands in his pockets, stood with his hat cocked
to the side of his head, with one of his eyes at the rear of the
chair, and with one of his sharp fingers in his hat-pocket, as he
waited for the doctor to appear.

‘I say, sir,’ Mr Boffin began, ‘that I am appreciative of your
manner, and that I am conscious of your being at my service of
a peculiar and beautiful nature. I will only add, that I have
not received the gratification of beholding this countenance for the first
time, but I trust that this mark of Mr Twemlow’s attention may be
in some way mark of good humour.’

‘Pleasant, Pleasant, Pleasant!’ cried Twemlow.

‘And you are remarking with perfect frankness,’ said Mr Boffin,
‘that you think I have been a little overbearing with my friends here
that have been
====================
