'I see a beautiful city and a brilliant people rising from this abyss, and, in their struggles to be truly free, in their triumphs and defeats, through long long to come, I see the evil of this time and of the previous time of which this is the natural birth, gradually making expiation for itself and wearing out.’

He said this, and we both knew that he had done so.

‘But,’ said he, ‘what I fear most is, that the time may come when this city and these people, in their great magnificence, will be too much for
these common people.  What I fear most is that the time may come when it will be too much
for even you, and me, and two or three other people besides me, to stand between them and
a great good fortune that would be theirs for ever.  And what I fear most is, that,
when the time comes--shall we say this evening?  When it has come--shall we say this
morning?’

‘I fear it has been a long time,’ said I, ‘since you were."

‘Ah, you have been a time,’ he returned, ‘and I fancy that you have been
a long time.  Do you not remember--when we last spoke of this place, was it
near here?’

‘When?’ I faltered.

‘When?’ he repeated, ‘and when?’

‘I think so,’ said I, ‘I think you told me.’

‘Tell me where?’

‘I think I told you,’ he answered, with his usual coolness.

‘Well!’ said I, ‘it was when I was in your service.’

‘I believe you,’ I returned, ‘and so do you, and I believe you with all
the confidence of a life-long friend.  But how could I ever get the
better of that?’

‘Tell me this evening,’ said he, ‘which is evening?’

‘Well!’ he said, ‘I want to say a word to you that evening, and I want
you to say it to me.  I have some little business to transact with you, and I
will.’

‘You will come with me,’ said he, ‘or I shall send for it from you.  He is
waiting at the gate, for you to say.’

I thanked him, and said I would.

‘Have you said what you mean to say, friend?’ he demanded after a slow
resumption of his walk.

‘I have, sir.  I answered your question.  You asked me whether I meant to
say that I had some little business to transact with you, which you
pleased to the extent of asking me, and it is because I do say so, that I
want you to know--’

‘Well!’ cried he, ‘I don’t want you to know anything; but if you do, I
have something more to say.  Tell me where it is.’

‘It is near here,’ I replied.  ‘There’s the marsh country close by.’

‘It is near here,’ he repeated, looking leisurely round.  ‘I want to
say something of this, though it may be some years hence.  I want to say
something which you will understand, and which you will be proud and
pleased to receive.  The question is not one of form, but of fact.  Will you
take me for a very intimate friend?  The answer is, 'Surely.'  Were I
to say that I would have you?  The answer is, 'Surely.'  You know that I
have not a moment’s delay as a personal friend, and that you shall not
think it a liberality to look to me for support whatever I may say.  Let me
say, plainly and honestly, that I am not unmindful of your confidence,
and that I know you.’

‘Well!’ he returned, ‘you have friends, and you have time, and you
have to work.  You have plenty of help, and you needn’t take it, I
think.’

And thus he stopped, with his arms crossed, and his head leaning on
the arm-chair.

====================
I see a beautiful city and a brilliant people rising from this abyss, and, in their struggles to be truly free, in their triumphs and defeats, through long long to come, I see the evil of this time and of the previous time of which this is the natural birth, gradually making expiation for itself and wearing out.’

‘It is not fanciful,’ said Mr Wegg, ‘though it might be beautiful to look at.’

‘Beautiful to look at,’ echoed the other.

‘But it is not the more beautiful to look at because it is so much more real,’
remarked Mr Wegg, ‘which is the beauty of this scene, and yet so much more beautiful, to
look at, and yet so much more disturbing, because it is so much more terrible.’

‘A little more real, I assure you, Mr Wegg,’ returned the other.

‘Bah! You are pulling my hair,’ said Mr Wegg, ‘when I hardly know what I want to
say. I want to ask a question, a length of time ago, that the moment will
not pass. Let me ask it in its place, as truth, and with its place.’

‘What question?’

‘That question I did not intend to ask, sir.’

‘Let me ask it in its place in a way that will give you the greatest
opportunity of getting it out of my head.’

‘I will, Mr Wegg,’ said the other.

‘No more of this. Let me ask it as a question of time.’

‘For the love of Heaven, Mr Wegg!’ implored the anxious Mr Venus, ‘do not
speak of it in this place. I object to it as a question of time,
because you will not know what you ask. Can you guess, sir, what I am
about to say, or do you think I am not about to say it? Let me ask it of
time too, and not in this place. Can you guess, sir, what I am about to say?
But let me ask it in this place too, and not in this place. You can’t
think of the opportunity lost, sir, if you put the question in this
place. Can you guess, sir, what I am about to say? Can you guess what I am
about to say? Well! Can you guess, sir?’

‘If you give me a straight answer,’ said Mr Venus, with an air of patient
wrestling, ‘I can tell you what you deserve to be.’

‘You are a very good man, sir,’ retorted Wegg, ‘to take advantage of my
assistance. I know what it is, sir, to be stared at, and stared at in a
discussion with a man. I have seen it done. There is some interest in the
question, sir.’

‘No interest!’

‘Yes, sir,’ said the other, shaking his head with his former attitude, ‘some
interest. But I am going on to say something more. Let us go on.’

‘Sir,’ said Mr Wegg, ‘as you have been very persistent in your inquiries,
and have not been satisfied until you have found the man, I have an
opportunity of offering my services without delay. You desire the
protection of another party to the transaction. You desire the
assistance of a friend.’

‘May I object?’

‘May I, sir?’ said Mr Wegg, ‘say no more than that--that you are a very
distant friend?’

‘An old friend,’ Mr Venus interposed, ‘of your mother.’

‘An old friend,’ said Mr Wegg, interposing with an air of melancholy resignation,
‘of your mother. But he has been a very dissolute, bad-tempered, bad-
breath, bad-spirited man, in many respects.’

‘But you know what he is, sir?’ said Venus.

‘And you know what I am, sir?’ said Wegg.

‘I have a kindness for you, sir, which I am glad to understand, Mr
Venus,’ said Mr Venus, ‘which I should not be at all pleased to forget.’
====================
I see a beautiful city and a brilliant people rising from this abyss, and, in their struggles to be truly free, in their triumphs and defeats, through long long to come, I see the evil of this time and of the previous time of which this is the natural birth, gradually making expiation for itself and wearing out.’

‘It is not often,’ said Steerforth, ‘that I, of all people, and least among friends, that can soothe and console a troubled fellow-creature; when that creature is in its most miserable and abject state
and when the thoughts of its Creator are reversed, and its Maker inwardly and deliberately
wounds it, I see the pure light of Divine truth and innocence, with its gentle
purity and purity of heart, which I comfort and entrust to you, as my friend
and partner in your struggle for a free and happy tomorrow. The more I can lift my
eyes to you, and the nearer I get to you, the nearer I shall be to the
shelter of the Law of God’s truth, the nearer I shall ever be to the time of
termination, when even that great Judge of all Time and Seas, the Peace of
Europe, will look upon this blessed little village as a fallen
haze of ruin and ruin, totally blighted, and will say, “It is a good
settlement, but it is a poor one”--“It is a good settlement, but it is a poor
one”--“It is a good settlement, but it is not a poor one”--and so you
shall find all the rest of it, in the meantime, to be as much the worse for
it as for you; when you have, as I expect, completely shaken off that
shuddering, I dare say, you’ll be refreshed with a sight of the quiet
shelter of the free market, which will soften it all, and remind you, when
wake, to a more sound mind, of the happy days when your whole life was
trusted and loved, and when you were little more than a widow.’

‘And when I say I’ll be a judge of this,’ said little Steerforth, ‘I
mean I’ll be a judge of it without having to resort to it, and I shall
do it, and I shall take my oath of it, and I will bear it faithfully.’

‘You have a general power to do this sort of thing,’ said the little
Judge, with his grey head thrown down, and his large watch-chain
twist at his pink pocket-handkerchief, ‘and you do it with a spirit and
submission that are worthy of you. This is the sort of spirit with which
I have never seen my brother or my father--never--never. But you shall not
think I am harsh or unkind. I will not dissemble from you; I know how
good you are; but I will say to you as plain, and as plainly as I can,
that I have a spirit--a spirit of truth--and I do.’

He had a kind of way of expressing himself, that was not so
dissimilar from his general manner, and which was certainly a very
neat and tidy spirit. It was certainly the spirit of truth, and it
was certainly the spirit of truth with which he treated everything about
him.

‘Now, Mr Rokesmith,’ he went on, ‘I want to ask you a question. Let me see
the book, and let me ask you a question.’

‘What is the question?’ he repeated.

‘What is the question?’

‘What is the question?’

‘What is the question?’

‘What is the question?’

‘What is the question?’

‘What is the question?’

‘What is the question?’

‘What is the question?’

‘What is the question?’

‘What is the question?’

He seemed to think he was going to say ‘What is the question?’ but was
precambulated ‘No,’ to answer, ‘What is not the question.’

‘Now, Mr Rokesmith,’ said Steerforth, taking him by the chin, and
raising his head as he spoke, and turning his eyes to the Judge;
‘I want to ask you a question. Can you tell me
====================
I see a beautiful city and a brilliant people rising from this abyss, and, in their struggles to be truly free, in their triumphs and defeats, through long long to come, I see the evil of this time and of the previous time of which this is the natural birth, gradually making expiation for itself and wearing out. I go on, and I see Nell, with her bright eyes and sweet fair face, and the fair hair that never
walked, lying in the garden, with her sweet little figure like a child’s, and
her pretty little tongue hanging out with the free tenderness of a child’s, and her
pretty little heart bursting with love and joy.

Oh, what a blessed sight the very purple flowers that made such a difference in Little Dorrit!
the little green butterflies that made such a difference in Little Dorrit! oh, how happy she
was! how she almost feared that her pretty little sister was going to be a
mistake, and that she ought to be the last person to mention it to her, and that she
was the last person to notice it, and that she was a very bad sister!

Oh, what a blessed sight the little green fan that kept the butterflies
pouring out of the flower-pot into the little glass terrarium! Oh, what a
blessed sight the little shelf of chips that lined that terrarium! Oh, what an
enjoyable place it was!

Oh, what a blessed sight the little round table in the little room
in the little room, where the little mother and the little father sat,
talking, laughing, and looking at the sun--and at Little Dorrit
too; when the little mother said ‘Little Dorrit is the darling of my heart,
and Little Dorrit is her music!’ and the little father said ‘Well,
Little Dorrit is the darling of my life, and Little Dorrit is a joy to
my heart!’ and when they were all in a mist of father and mother and
Little Dorrit in the background, looking as if there were a picture on the
wall of all the pictures in the world, and Little Dorrit taking her station
on a little platform where she could touch it, and Little Dorrit smilingly
looking on, as if she were the last creature to touch it, and all the rest
were looking on at her.

Oh, what a blessed place that terrarium was! And how the flowers grew
to look so cheerful!

But in the midst of all this, there was the Father of the Marshalsea,
looking on with a pleasant smile upon his golden head, and his arms crossed
over his breast, and his face bent down, and his head turned a little
towards Little Dorrit, and he listened with a pleasant kind of attention
upon her. He was a very comfortable man, I thought. He had not been a
Doctor for twenty years, and had had Goldilocks all to himself, and was
always cheerful. He was not a very lively speaker, but he was
always welcome when he thought she was going to be a little different sort of
little person. He was not a very fine dresser, I thought, but he was
addicted to it. On his birthday he added a little toy to Little Dorrit’s
little wishlist, to which she always referred in her letters.

Oh, what a delightful old Father! I can recall him now looking on as I
remember him looking on when we were at school, with his head bowed
upon his breast, and his hat falling on his head in acknowledgment
of all he had forgotten. Oh, what a magnificent old Father! Oh, what
a charming old Father!

And he was not at all like him, I thought, when he took his sweet time in
sitting on his golden arm-chair, talking, and looking at Little Dorrit.
He was a little slow to go about the room, and his eyes lingered a good
deal on her, and on the ground. I did not exactly know how this was, at
school, and at present I merely know that he took his sweet time in sitting
on his golden arm-chair, talking to Little Dorrit. And still I think,
though I don’t say it with reverence, that I could wish him to go to sleep,
and keep his golden arm-chair looking like a great golden watch, until
he has strayed into his golden bed, and he has retired to meditate upon
the Golden Thread which links both his life and his death.


CHAPTER 13. ILLUSTRATIVE


I have said that I did not wish to go to sleep, but that I did wish him
to go to sleep. Instead of that
====================
I see a beautiful city and a brilliant people rising from this abyss, and, in their struggles to be truly free, in their triumphs and defeats, through long long to come, I see the evil of this time and of the previous time of which this is the natural birth, gradually making expiation for itself and wearing out. Then, my dear Trotwood,’ he says, looking round upon us, ‘I enjoy the company of a perfectly fine lady and gentleman, and am particularly fond of Mr. Dick, who has been a friend of my boyish life, and who is a man of generosity and
a good heart. As to myself, I am nothing of the sort.’

We all said something, and shook hands, and there was an end of that conversation.

He then went on to say, that though he had hoped for an opportunity of bearing a little
notice of this change in his own character and fortune, he had not been able to
secure a time within the cape of Excellence, and that he now felt called upon to make
that change for his own. He referred to his fair daughter, and her fair son; but
not without a glance at his own face, and her face with it.

‘After you, my dear Trotwood, I will come to you, without any
other mention in this house, and I will say this here; if I have a dingy little
room to show you, it is that dingy little room I have mentioned.’

The room was a little room of unctuous magnificence. It was in the
family room, and it stretched, across the family-room, like a great
mighty country clock, all the days of the year. Everything that was ever
dashed out of my imaginative purse, was displayed in its various
contents. I could not have said that I should have liked to part with it;
I could not have said it to Mr. Dick, or to Trotwood, or to anyone.

‘It is a fancy,’ said Mr. Dick, ‘an impractical fancy. It’s a room that once
was for ever to be recreated. It’s my room. I cannot turn it; I cannot take it
with me; but I show it here.’

‘Is it your room?’ I inquired.

‘My dear boy, no,’ said Mr. Dick, glancing round upon the room. ‘Not
the queer sort, in general; let me assure you. The more picturesque
it is, the more picturesque it’s the room.’

He then went on to say, that though he was a traveller and a sailor, he
travelled alone, in his fancy-travellers’ way, and that he had seen
such places as Egypt, Persia, India, and Spain, with a kind of
excited curiosity, which he felt had no existence in reality, and that
he had seen such sights, and such sights combined, in his time of life,
that he had a curious feeling that he saw ‘em all every day. He had
seen such sights, in his time of life, that he had a curious feeling
that he saw ‘em all every day. And, he said, though he could never quite
made up his mind to say so, he had seen enough of them to know that the
seasons of the year were the strongest season for seeing them. He had
heerd how the whole country was covered, from coast to coast, with
pictures; he hadheerd how the public buildings of different nations
were peopled with pictures; he hadheerd how carts, horses, paint, and
tools, with pictures in their carriage, were all piled together in the
seasons of the year to make a vast collection. And, he said, this, and
much more, he found in himself, a man of letters, an architect, a lover
of buildings, and an ingenious workman.

‘It was a curious feeling, Trotwood, to find, in one’s own
thoughts, that I should have a complete idea of all the pictures in
the world, and that I should see the great majority of the pictures
on the walls of the Royal Academy of Science--’

‘Think of that, Mr. Dick!’ interposed his sister.

‘--But, I think it was a curious feeling too,’ he said, ‘when I
thought how much the people who make the pictures are afraid of them.’

His sister suggested ‘I think,’ and he said, aloud, ‘though they
may
====================
I see a beautiful city and a brilliant people rising from this abyss, and, in their struggles to be truly free, in their triumphs and defeats, through long long to come, I see the evil of this time and of the previous time of which this is the natural birth, gradually making expiation for itself and wearing out. But I do not see any escape from it.”

He had pulled at the cord until it choked, then let it drop, and inserted his hand into the pocket of his coat. As it
covered his lips, he had an unspeakable sensation of being attacked with a painful
disagreeable smell.

“I have escaped from it for ever,” said he, “and its effects were not of this
world. But, during the last two years, I have been contemplating the abyss, and
pursuing my own unhappy life. And now that the present blessed condition is
over, I feel that I have done all I could for my friend.”

He received this feeling, not with a cry of triumph, but with a sense of a
duty he owed to himself.

“I have shown him,” he said, in a low voice, “that I can be a useful man,
and that I can teach him, or have taught him, anything. But I know that he
requires me always to be in his mind, always to be on his guard, always to be
ready to listen when he calls. And I--I must not conceal from you that I am
usually in a troubled mind.”

“I suppose--”

“The greatest deception of my life,” said he, “lies in your favour. I know
this, and I know more than that. I have performed the deception, and I
know more than that.”

“There is no use then,” said he, turning to his friend, “re-dupe me
into a better man. I have done all I could to make you uneasy, and I
have done it with his knowledge. What I have shown you, you saw yesterday.
What I have shown you, you will not forget tomorrow.”

“O dear, dear!” he murmured, in a low shivering voice, between his teeth.
“O deary day!”

“What I have shown you, you will not forget tomorrow. You know it, and
know as well as I do that it is the lie of my life!”

“I have shown you,” said he, “a lie that I hope you will never be
satisfied with. I have shown you, a lie that I think you may never be able
to repay, and yet that I know I may repay. I have shown you a lie that
I think you may never be able to wear out.”

“I reproach you with it,” said he, “and I reproach you with it, and I ask
you to forgive me for it.”

“You do me the favour to say so,” he answered, “and I ask you to forgive me
for it.”

“Say so,” said he, taking out his handkerchief, and putting it on, “and
I ask you to forgive me for it.”

“For God's sake,” said he, “give me your good will. Say so! You can reproach
me with it, and I ask you to forgive me for it.”

“And I,” said he, “will remain the best of friends, not because I am
determined to wear that badge, but because I have no more love for it
than a spaniel has for its master--no more desire to please it, than I
have to please a dog.”

“Well! That's a departure from your usual self-control,” said I.

“I know better,” he returned. “Come! Try me, and see.”

He seemed to be making up his mind to this, and having given it final
support, stood with his hand on the regiment's coat-sleeve, and his
eyes peering over it.

“I know enough now,” he said, “to know that you will never persuade me.
I have not the least desire to persuade you. It is possible that you
may, or you may not, and that I will, or I will not, and I will
not have the audacity to say that I will
====================
I see a beautiful city and a brilliant people rising from this abyss, and, in their struggles to be truly free, in their triumphs and defeats, through long long to come, I see the evil of this time and of the previous time of which this is the natural birth, gradually making expiation for itself and wearing out.’

‘Quite!’

‘But I am glad to observe that evil is past. Now, gentlemen, on to the present time; on to the next time.’

Here the door was thrown hastily open, and the beadle and his two friends entered the room.

‘Rounds!’ cried the beadle. ‘Mathematical fishes! Bottles, drums, saws, horses, donkeys,
donkeys, and horses, and mathematical fishes! All here are in the same boat, and all
hereabouts in the same boat, and all ready to go, to the Olympic Games, to be
disappeared for ever, under the same roof!’

‘The people of London, gentlemen--my loyal friends in the
royalty and my faithful servant, Mr. Bartlemy, in the
press--you will make yourselves useful in some way or other, or you
will have a fatal inclination to throw them under the same bus as us, and
we will wither and die upon it.’

‘The water in this tub is red. The water in the next tub is blue.
The water in the next is yellow. I am sure I know my rights as between
man and man. If you are not convinced, as I am, that it is the
humanity of a man to wither and die upon such practices, and that it
is the humanity of a father to preserve and promote such practices, I
suppose that in the sight of Heaven one never rises above the next in
tears, and that the next never passes between us.’

‘Rounding!’ said the beadle.

‘Mathematical fishes!’ cried his friend the beadle, with his hand to
his forehead, and his eyes on the ground. ‘Greenland, sir?’

‘No, no. Quarantine, sir?’

‘Yes, yes. But quarantine is a very bad word for cattle. Let us come
to the Olympic Games.’

‘Well,’ said the man with the lever, ‘you don’t want to come to the
Olympic Games, do you?’

‘I don’t want to come to the Olympic Games,’ returned the other, ‘because I am
not fit to compete with the people who have the resources to keep me
well. I am not fit to compete with the people who are going to keep me
well.’

The beadle looked full in the face at the man with the lever and at the
man with the watch, and then at the man with the cane, and then at the man
with the box, and then at the man with the cap, and then at the man with the
court, and then at the man with the dinner-table, and then at the man with the
baker, and then at the man with the hat; and then at the man with the cannon,
and then at the man with the shoe, and then at the man with the blind, and
then at the man with the newspaper, and then at the man with the ring, and
then at the man with the shoe-cut, and then at the man with the toothache, and
then at the man with the shoulder-blade, and then at the man with the
basket, and then at the man with the light, and then at the man with the
pipe, and then at the man with the biscuit, and then at the man with the
sliced orange, and then at the man with the lemon-peel, and then at the man
with the pippin, and then at the man with the kidney, and then at the man
with the boiled leg of lamb, and then at the man with the baked potato,
and then at him with the boiled beef, and then at the man with the
loin of veal, and then at the man with the boiled shrimps, and then at
the man with the boiled vegetables, and then at the man with the salad, and
then at the man with the boiled bacon, and then at the man with the fish, and
then at the man with the boiled beef, and then at the man with the bread, and
then at the man with the boiled veal and then at the man with the
====================
I see a beautiful city and a brilliant people rising from this abyss, and, in their struggles to be truly free, in their triumphs and defeats, through long long to come, I see the evil of this time and of the previous time of which this is the natural birth, gradually making expiation for itself and wearing out. I see the dark cloud that was to be cast across it, being long and full. But I believe it is at last, as the darkness of the old one was, and I know it, and can love it no more.”

If I thought of the night that passed in that room when I was a child, as I did of the night that passed this room when I
walked with Agnes, I only felt that my love for Agnes was weakened by the remembrance of
what had been past, and that it was all a dream. She was beautiful, and full of
kindness to me. I loved her. I am grateful to her, and all the love I owe her, in
possessing her simple trust, with all my heart and soul, and yet not flinching at
all for a moment to the knowledge that her influence may have any influence upon me
that it can exercise, though it may change me, and that I may do her good with all
the firmness I must. I know I am not a simple fellow, and that I may have
if I were less composed, and less firm in my purpose, what I have written,
and how I have made a grand conception of myself, in Agnes, with her help. But
I know what I have to do, and I plan accordingly.

I have not written much now; but I have written enough. I have told
you, in a few sentences, that I have a thousand reasons for being earnestly
deceiving the purpose of this life, and for living a lie. But I know what I
have to do, and I plan accordingly.

If I could do it all, I would do it in my duty, and in the purest
honour of my calling myself a gentleman, and in doing it as a man of
trades, and in enduring all I have experienced myself.

If I could do it all, I would tell you, as I tell you now, that I have
no love for myself, but love for others. That I am beset by no
secret, but love for others. That I am in dependency on others for
everything I have, and that I am always in want of help and service in
other men’s service, but that I have such help and service in mine, bearing
all the defects of the world, and bearing the purest strengths, that
I have a duty to the end that I have achieved.

If I could do it all, I would tell you, as I tell you now, that I know
I love Agnes, and that I have tried hard to win her love and reward; that
I have been a disappointment to Agnes, and that I am ashamed of her; that
I have found that Agnes considers me not worthy of myself; that I know
that she does not love me, and that her love is for another; that I know
that Agnes marries another, and that I love him better than I love her, and
that I take such pains to be the last of the family, and to be a credit to
her, and to be beloved by her, and to be beloved by all whom she loves, that
I have been a disappointment to Agnes, and that she loves me, and that
I hope I can be worthy of her, and worthy of all she loves, and that I am
not a reproach to her, and that I love her well, and that all her faults
may be corrected.

If I could do it all, I would tell you, as I tell you now, that I have
done everything that I could, and that much more I shall do, and that
I am stronger and better in a little time to come, and that Agnes is my
friend, and that I shall never desert her, and that I thank her from my heart,
and that it all turns to well-fare and happiness for my sake, and for
her sake only.

If I could do it all, I would tell you that I willed Agnes to be my
friend, and that I told her so, and that I entreated her to love me, and
that I hoped she had considered what she did, when she chose to do it, and
that she would now be a better man, and a better husband, and that she
took the pains to which I am sensible she should have gone, but that
I know I love her, and
====================
I see a beautiful city and a brilliant people rising from this abyss, and, in their struggles to be truly free, in their triumphs and defeats, through long long to come, I see the evil of this time and of the previous time of which this is the natural birth, gradually making expiation for itself and wearing out. I see it humbly and imperfectly represented as a triumph for the poor and ignorant; but in reality I see it worn and disgraced, and a blight upon the streets and the country. The time has gone by, and our time has not. We must prepare ourselves for the worst, and be prepared for the best. Every good work that is done, every blessing that is bestowed upon us, every duty that we do to each other, must be traced to this one wretch. He must be purged, he must be put to death, for this.”

“May I ask you one thing, Mr. Weller?”

“You may ask me anything, sir,” he interposed, “but what I want to know, you know.”

“Well, may I ask you a question?”

“You may ask me anything, sir, but what I want to know, you know.”

“Well, may I ask you a question?”

“You may ask me anything, sir, but what I want to know, you know.”

“Well, may I ask you a question?”

“You may ask me anything, sir, but what I want to know, you know.”

“May I ask you anything?”

“You may ask me anything, sir, but what I want to know, you know.”

“Well, may I ask you anything?”

“You may ask me anything, sir, but what I want to know, you know.”

“Well, may I ask you anything?”

“You may ask me anything, sir. But what I want to know, you know.”

“May I ask you anything?”

“You may ask me anything, sir. But what I want to know, you know.”

So, once again, the wretched individual was plunged into a swoon. The more he begged and
considered, the more hopeless the situation became, and the harder it became
for him to believe that he was helping the movement to progress, the more he
remained conscious of the boundless necessity of establishing the truth by
clear and convincing proof.

With every fibre in his being actively engaged, he entertained a
dread and contempt for the man who had drawn him into this movement. The man
had no feeling for him; the man saw nothing of him in his selfish
spite of the man, and the more he feared for him, the more he knew of
him.

The man's own weakness knew no bounds, and, like a cancer in the breast,
he shrunk away from the weak and defenseless man. The man's oppression and
prejudice had no change even of colour for the instant, but dwelt
in the evil thoughts that were animating him, and made him dimmer and
dreadful.

“You,” said the man, “you who have followed me here, are a friend of my
brother's.”

“Ay, ay. He knows me,” said the man who had watched the man's
drops of blood and his fleeing round of faces, “and knows me.”

“I know you.”

“I know you.”

“I don't know you,” said the man, with a cruel smile, and with
the action of throwing off his weapon, “but I know you.”

“Will you have the goodness to be so kind as to say a word to me?”

“If you please, sir.”

“Goodness?”

“I must ask you not to speak to me. What I have seen, and what I
prevented, I did. I know it.”

“Goodness?”

“I know your brother,” replied the man, with a throw of his wild
hat over his head, as it now dropped on the ground. “I know him.”

“Goodness?”

“I ask you not to speak to me,” continued the man, as he stopped
short at
====================
I see a beautiful city and a brilliant people rising from this abyss, and, in their struggles to be truly free, in their triumphs and defeats, through long long to come, I see the evil of this time and of the previous time of which this is the natural birth, gradually making expiation for itself and wearing out. The days which are past, I see the triumphs of the city which Dracci lived and ruled, and the glorious countryside which spread out before
it. I see it with my own eyes and through my own eyes and through its influence, a city that is not a wreck and a heap of ruins, as some people suppose, but a City that grows and is changed, and a glorious sky that is not a wandering light, but a City that never tells its own story, and is a Fountain that never shuts up its own stream, and a shining edifice that is not a building, but is a symbol of a glorious immortality, and a Providence that never smiled on the poor, and never let them have a drop of relief on their troubles, and never let them have the chace and purpose of its beneficent roof.

It was a time for men who knew the art of doing it all, and who were familiar with all that was done, to come and work. There were such men in the craft, and such men came there, and they knew a thing or two of it, and they did it with such fine skill and with such eating and drinking and being
sedentary on the job, that in a short time the place was crowded with people in a state of prodigal
mutton and drunkenness, all of whom had a taste for mischief. The monotony of the place and the
absence of anything to do with amusements besides amusements, made it, even in the
heat of the season, a dull place to sit in, and a dull place to lie in. As if, in the
season of the season of the upper rooms being empty and cool, and the season of the
upper rooms being past, real men had to lie in wait for the seasons of the season
of the season, and women had to lie in wait for the seasons of the season, and so
the seasons waited for them, and everything else waited for them at the same time,
and so the season of the season of the season seemed unbroken.

That there was such a desire in the vulgar mind to be at rest in the
season of the season of the season, is clear. They said in the Gaulish
languor, when they heard of some great event of last year, ‘My gracious,
when was it?’ And in the Gaulish flat, when such a thing was said, they
answered, ‘This year!’ And in the Gaulish flat again, they said, ‘This year
has come round since the year one thousand seven hundred and eighty-six.’

‘But what is it that we say?’ said Lucie, in her fretful imagination.

‘My dearest,’ returned her father, ‘what is it that we say?’

‘Why, Lucie, my love,’ said the Doctor, ‘the season of the season. It is
seasoning.’

‘But what is the season of the season?’ demanded Lucie, still in his
obsession with her father.

‘It is the season of the year, my dear,’ said the Doctor, ‘when the
immortals who are to come are yet on their way to bring nothing, and
are yet at home and have nothing for supper. It is the season of the
season when the poor people who are to come have nothing for supper, and
are yet going hungry. It is the season of the season of the season of the
month of a year.’

‘But what is the season of the season?’ said Lucie, still in his
obsession with her father.

‘It is the season of the month of a year, my love,’ said the Doctor,
‘when the poor people who are to come have nothing for supper, and are
yet going hungry. It is the season of the season of the season of the
summer when the poor people who are to come have nothing for supper, and
are yet going hungry. It is the season of the season of the season of the
workweek when the poor people who are to come have nothing for supper, and
are yet going hungry.’

‘But what is the season of the season?’ asked Lucie, in her fainting
voice.

‘Of the month of a year, my dear,’ said
====================
