I am a disappointed drudge, sir. I care for no man on earth, and no man on earth cares for me. No man on earth
has ever shown a light to me.’

‘On the contrary,’ said I.

‘Pardon me,’ returned Mr. Bumble, ‘I was in a manner the victim of a pretty
disagreeable jealousy, and yet I was dissatisfied. I have since been
satisfied that I did right. I have since been more satisfied than I
could have believed possible. I should have been without a rival. Sir,’
and Mr. Bumble placed his hands in his pockets, and stood looking at the
table as if he thought he saw something in the pockets, ‘you may be
sure that I have shown myself a very impertinent and servile character,
in taking leave of your friends. I might have wished to represent you
generally, according to your own sense of this sort; but I think the
pictures you have of my face, sufficiently illustrate my feeling of my own.’

Mr. Bumble, having now shaken hands with me, bent his head, and
looked vacantly at the fire.

‘Come, Mr. Copperfield,’ said Mr. Bumble, ‘I think you had better
not come down to that time of the year, which is Christmas Day, and
avoiding that occasion altogether. I think you had better, sir,
avoid the high and solemn occasion in which such an exchange usually
replaces the family holidays. The occasion may be attended by a
family holiday, or it may not be. The occasion may be expected to be
calculated to be one-and-twenty minutes off; but if it is not to be
hidden from the public, I think it must be made plain that you have
already resolved to make it known to the whole of the East India
Port Town. The time is now come, sir, when you may be expected to make it
known to the whole of the East India Port Town.’

‘The time is come, sir,’ said I, ‘when you may be expected to make it
known to the whole of the East India Port Town.’

‘And you, sir,’ said Mr. Bumble, ‘you shall make it known to me, when I am
waiting on your daughter at the coach-stand for that purpose. Good-night,
sir!’ and with that he sat down on his stool, and looked vacantly at the fire.

The anniversary was as uncertain as ever. I was haunted by the doubt for some
time. The doubt was cast now upon me; and here it was cast.

‘You have a daughter, sir,’ said Mr. Bumble, ‘a little girl of mine. A very
little girl. In her young days, she was very fond of you, and was always
attentively and cheerfully attached to you. A very little girl.’

‘Had she any elder sister, sir?’ I inquired.

‘No elder sister,’ said Mr. Bumble, ‘but is a kind friend to you, and has
been a comfort to you. A very little girl.’

‘Sister?’ I repeated.

‘Sister,’ said Mr. Bumble, ‘has been a comfort to you. A very little
girl.’

‘Sister has never been particular to you, sir?’

‘Sister has,’ said Mr. Bumble, feigning to be undecided, and looking
evasively at the fire. ‘Sister is of my mind, sir.’

‘I understand, sir,’ said I, ‘Sister to be a kind friend to
you, and has been a comfort to you. Sister has been a kind friend to
me, and I am very glad to have her sisterly love for you, and to know
that she is your sister. Sister?’

‘Sister is,’ said Mr. Bumble, ‘my friend.’

‘I have had the honour of knowing Ms. S. from her earliest days,’
said I, in some embarrassment; ‘and I have a great admiration for
her, and a profound respect for her, and would do her any kindness,
and ask any benevolence, and do any kindnesses for the improvement of
you and for the encouragement of you. Sister will be sure to do
whatever you wish,
====================
I am a disappointed drudge, sir. I care for no man on earth, and no man on earth cares for me.’

The Doctor looked round at him, and slowly shook his head.

‘Don’t you remember the time when you were called to the bar of the Lock
House? The time when you were made to swear not to rob the
Locks? The time when you were put into that pitiful little pair of
shoes then, by a mutual friend?’

Doctor Manette shook his head again, and took several turns at his
instrument.

‘Don’t you remember when you were made to swear to the 'old Billingshore
besides--the one that you were wearing when you came into the Counting-house
on a Monday morning?'

The Doctor put his instrument away, and looked at his friend with a kind
of grim curiosity; but, neither he nor any one else appeared to learn.

‘Don’t you remember when the sergeant entered you in the room and said, “I’ve
come to have a look at you, through the little window in the
little cabinet under your chin,” and when he had looked at you into the
corner, he said, “Now I think you’re going to betray me, I’ve come to
think you’re a going to betray your friend,” and when he had looked at you
into the corner again--he said, “Ah, to be sure!” and when he told you
at the close of that last look that you were to be pitied, he dropped the
curtain and backed up the window, and when he backed up the window
again--he said, “Pardon me, I’ve come to have a little look at you.”

The Doctor looked at him again, and then at the Doctor, and then at the
Doctor again, and finally said, “Well, you are a sharp fellow.”

‘Well, I hope I am. I hope I hope I hope I hope I hope I am.

‘I am very, very sorry to take this liberty of observing, but I hope I
may have the opportunity of showing you that I am. I shall take the liberty
of showing you that I am, as you may suppose, in need of your kind
assistance and protection.’

‘What have you been doing to yourself?’

‘Wishing that you might suffer the wear and tear of continual confinement,
and might at length be removed from it,’ said Doctor Manette, ‘I have
been confined to a room in the Counting-house, and I have been
punctually checked and checked.’

‘I fear you are not unhappily a victim of that kind?’

‘I am not, no more than I am a fellow-creature,’ said the Doctor, with a
palpitating heart, ‘though that distinction may be a little doubtful. I
have been looked at as a fellow-creature more than once in the course
of my misfortune. I have been looked at as a fellow-creature once, and I
have been tried.’

‘It would be a very unpardonable offence to say that you have been looked
at by one who is not on the familiar footing of your fellow-creatures.’

‘I will not be allowed to evade the question, Doctor Manette,’ said
the Doctor, with his hands behind him, as he sat with his face turned
away and his head leaning on his shoulders.

‘However, I will not pretend that I deny the question,’ replied the Doctor,
‘nor that I will not answer it. I have been confined to a room in the
Counting-house, and I have been peremptorily suspended and ordered to an
inclosure. I am a fellow-creature, and I answer to an inferior station,
and I ask to be permitted to answer to an inferior station. This is my
own. You do not doubt my superior station. You do not doubt my
determination to be superior to it. You do not doubt my power of
sorting, and of laying down definite rules. But I ask, for the love of my
maid, and for the love of my child, that you will supply my inferior station,
and not to dilute it.’

As he watched her with his eyes fixed on the ceiling of the chamber,
he could not help observing how dark and dirty the room was, and
====================
I am a disappointed drudge, sir. I care for no man on earth, and no man on earth cares for me.’

That was a lie. He looked small and plump, and perhaps that was his
indignation; but he was not in a pitiful state, and would not have it
stood in him to say so.

‘You are a disappointed man, sir,’ said Mr. Groves; ‘and in so bad a
sort of place, that I hardly know what you mean by it. Where are you?’

‘I was going to ask your pardon, sir,’ said the turnkey.

‘Why?’

‘Why, sir,’ said Mr. Groves, snapping his fingers contemptuously, ‘in so
bad a sort of place, that you have no right to expect me. If you had a
more temper, sir, I think Mr. Peggotty would find a better sort of land.’

‘If you were better qualified to find it, sir,’ said the turnkey, ‘you
mightn’t be so rough with me.’

‘Mas’r Davy!’ retorted Mr. Peggotty. And it would be no wonder if he
extolled Mr. Groves as an exemplary man.

‘You’d have been a better man, sir,’ said Mr. Groves, ‘if you had been
a more temperate and a more generous man. You’d have wished me to be
good, and you’d have wanted me to be happy, and you’d have wished me to be
whatever I was that you might think proper to call me. Thousands of
your fellow-men,’ said Mr. Groves, snapping his fingers again, ‘will
never forget, when they think proper to do it. A man of your
excellence, sir, if I thought fit to be good, would have done it. But we
don’t call you a’most that sort of man, I think.’

‘A man of your excellence!’ said Mr. Peggotty. ‘Don’t you know?’

‘I don’t,’ said Mr. Groves, ‘I don’t.’

‘Ay, ay,’ said the turnkey. ‘Don’t you know that a man of your own
excellence, sir, will never do it?’

‘I don’t,’ retorted Mr. Groves, ‘I don’t, and I am glad you ask me
why.’

‘Say why,’ said the turnkey. ‘Say why,’ said Mr. Groves, ‘what a man of
your own excellence, sir, must have been. What a man of your own
excellence, sir, must have been!’

‘What a man of my own excellence, sir, must have been,’ said the turnkey.
‘What a man,’ said Mr. Groves, looking hard at the turnkey, ‘must
have been!’

‘Well,’ said the turnkey, ‘I suppose you’ve been pretty well always,
my friend, pretty well all your life, pretty well ever since you
was a boy.’

‘I should think I had been,’ said Mr. Groves, shaking his head. ‘I
thought I had been pretty well ever since I knew my first boy, and
I thought I was going to have a little boy. Ah! I wonder what sort of a
little boy I was!’

‘You must have been a very bad child, Mr. Groves,’ said the turnkey,
‘to come so soon.’

‘Bad, I hope,’ said Mr. Groves, shaking his head again. ‘Bad
to be sure, sir, bad--absolutely bad.’

The turnkey murmured something about a desire to go to the Devil, and
was covered with dust, so that it was difficult to see what he wanted
with his face going forward; but Mr. Groves, laying one of his two
hands on his pipe, and drawing forth another from the little knot of
cigars, looked with great interest at Mr. Peggotty, who had been smoking
with both eyes, and slowly bringing one of them round
====================
I am a disappointed drudge, sir. I care for no man on earth, and no man on earth cares for me.’

The Doctor, in the Doctor’s absence, had clasped the hand of Mrs.
Bedwin, and spoken of her as his 'aunt. Mr. Dick, on the instant of
his being fully clothed, had clasped the hand of his mother, and spoken of
her as his ‘aunt. The two letters were made known to the Doctor’s
aunt as well as to the Doctor’s sister; and both were received
with a trite, mechanical, and apologetic air of truth.

The Doctor, at long intervals, turned his eyes from Mr. Dick, and
from Mrs. Bedwin, and said:--

‘Are you very far?’

‘Madam,’ returned Mr. Dick, ‘I have only walked twenty miles.’

‘Did you ever ride twenty miles yourself, sir?’

‘I used,’ said Mr. Dick, with the tears streaming down his face, ‘to
walk the dogs.’

‘I thought you’d like that,’ said the Doctor; ‘I used to think it was so
natural.’

‘No, I never used to think it was natural,’ said Mr. Dick. ‘I had a curious
kind of taste in animals, sir.’

‘A curious sort of taste,’ said the Doctor, with a smile, as he surveyed
the two letters. ‘Yes. I think so. I think so.’

‘I have been thinking,’ resumed Mr. Dick, ‘about my aunt.’



CHAPTER XIX. HOW THE PICKWICK CLUB, INSTEAD OF BEING A GROUPE, WAS FEELED
AND FEELED ABOUT THE UNKNOWN CRITICAL POSITION, WHICH HAD BEEN
CONTAINED IN ITSELF IN THE WORD, THE GOLDEN DUSTMAN’S LAW
OF CHARACTER

It was a fine, bright day--though not bright by any means, in the
sunny part of the county--when the Doctor, Mr. Dick, and Mr.
Swiveller, sitting down to their dinner, took a long draught of
porter, and looked at the sun shining on their little round table. Mr.
Dick’s eye was drawn to the window of the little round restaurant, and he
looked long and anxiously at the watchman. Mr. Swiveller’s eye was
stooping to his hat, and he looked anxiously at the Doctor.

‘Waiter,’ said Mr. Dick, ‘Doctor with me?’

‘Doctor with sixteen friends,’ was the Doctor’s reply.

‘Wonderful,’ said Mr. Dick. ‘Show ‘em in.’

‘Come,’ said the Doctor, ‘on, sir.’

‘I’ll be your waiter,’ said Mr. Dick.

‘Wery glad to see you,’ replied the Doctor. ‘Show ‘em in at once, Sir.’

‘But be careful to let us know when they come in,’ said Mr. Dick,
looking quickly in Mr. Swiveller’s direction. ‘I was going to tell
you not to be put out of the way, sir; I’ve a family appointment that I
hope you may find time for.’

‘I will,’ said the Doctor, ‘if you please. I’ll explain myself
when they arrive. Good-morning, Sir.’

Mr. Dick, with bowed head and forefinger, put the teapot and glass
on the table, and stood looking at the sky, with a countenance of
excessive gloom.

‘What’s your name, sir?’ said the Doctor, with a smile.

‘Croweid, Sir.’

‘What’s your name?’ said the Doctor. ‘Rokesmith--surname Croweid.’

‘What’s yours?’ said Mr. Dick.

‘Rubinstein,’ said the Doctor.

‘Is it?’ said Mr. Dick.

‘Is it?’ said the Doctor. ‘It is, Mr.
====================
I am a disappointed drudge, sir. I care for no man on earth, and no man on earth cares for me.’

‘How do you know me?’

‘Because you are not worthy of me. I tell you that with great pride and love
you have for you, you have not forgotten the poor old woman. You have not
forgotten the kind face, the kind face, the kind face that you have never
left. You have never forgotten the gentle ease with which you have
loved this dear old lady, the gentle ease with which you have loved this
dear old lady many years. You have never forgotten that you have loved
this pretty creature, and that you have never forgot that you have loved
this creature, and that you have never meant to be nothing more than
this creature--never meant to be anything but this--dear old lady.’

She stopped to look at him with a grateful kind of sorrow and pity, and
when he had finished, said:

‘I have told you I never meant to be anything more than this creature.
I have told you that you have loved this dear old lady very dutifully;
I have told you that you have never meant to be anything else. I have
told you, at last, that you have said yes to this, and you have done
nothing else as a reward for it; but I have not spoken of it to you,
and I hope you may consider it a sort of a kindness.’

‘What have I done to deserve it?’ said Clennam.

‘By your own leaving us,’ she answered, ‘you had better not be too
sensible of it. My love for this dear old lady has taken root here,
and it would be a kindness in me, and I hope you will not think it
difficult, or even unkind, to discharge it. If you can’t discharge it,
why should I beseech your forgiveness. I hope you will do me the favour
of looking again at the old lady, and of asking her whether she thinks
it a kindness to me, and why I have done myself the favour to keep the
kindness alive.’

‘You are quite a good soft one,’ said Arthur, accordingly.

‘And I am a very good soft one too,’ she answered, with a lightened
heart.

Their looks alone were all that there was to see in Little Dorrit. The
two bright eyes looked at it more than once, for the effect they had
been working away, and the dark lines of the face, and the bushy black
brows, were distinctly seen in the moonlight. There was the moonlight too,
when Little Dorrit sat by her grandfather’s side; and the moon was like a
spectre in the room.

The moon rose late, and did not begin to disclose itself until it was nearly
half past one. The shadow of the high buildings upon Clennam’s face was
shading it from the light, but it was not like the shadow of the moon in
the scene. The moon was on a par with the shadows of the sea and the stars,
and was not like the moon on another par with the stars. The tide, as it
bore the low end of the high buildings, carried the moon, and Little Dorrit,
and Arthur, and the two boys, to the banks of the dyke.

It was dark. They were to lie at the low end of the dyke, and the wind
was blowing so fast, that they were likely to be drownded, before they
had heard all that it had to say. It was the end of the first day’s
work in the morning, and Little Dorrit was to lie down to rest among the
stones.

She was to be ready before morning, and the sun was to be turned up.
Little Dorrit was to carry her bed to the room where her grandfather was,
and bury him there. She was to be ready again before the sun was out,
and her grandfather was to be made good at the inn at the appointed
time, and there was nothing for her to do but to follow him into the
garden, where there was a shelter to that extent, the earth being moist, and
the sky moist, and the earth being clear and bright.

She was not afraid of the dark, but fear was a thing to all of us. The
darkness was a thing to her, but not as to others. She stood by her, and
laid it bare--like all the others, and in a trembling voice said
====================
I am a disappointed drudge, sir. I care for no man on earth, and no man on earth cares for me.’

‘I know you do,’ said the Doctor, smiling. ‘But you needn’t have me, you know.’

‘No, Sir.’

‘I am sorry to see you so,’ said the Doctor. ‘But why, I suppose you are
tired, eh?’

‘No, Sir.’

‘You’re obliged to sleep a good deal,’ said the Doctor. ‘I don’t
think I sleep very much.’

‘You used to sleep a good deal,’ returned the Doctor; ‘and you do now,
though you don’t know it.’

‘I used to sleep a great deal,’ said the Doctor. ‘But I’ll tell you what I’d
do, Mr Twemlow, if you would spare me a moment. Say you had a kind
friend--say Mr Twemlow.’

The Doctor gave him such a slow look, that it might have been the
odor of a cat. It was so sudden and direct, that it was almost
indicative of a cat’s taste in looking at Twemlow. But Twemlow, without
preparation, with his eyes wide open, his chin resting on his hand, and his
face still looking out of them, nevertheless said:

‘Say I had a kind friend.’

‘Good. Say Mr Twemlow.’

‘Say he was a liberal,’ said the Doctor, with his face looking out of
the window.

‘Good. Say he was, too.’

It was Twemlow’s turn to be repressed. He never stamped, but stood silent,
with his eyes fixed on the ground. They both knew it.

‘Many a friend,’ said the Doctor, ‘has never been able to answer me,
and he is. Many a friend has been turned to the ground, and he has
never been able to answer for himself. For what I was, I was nothing. I
don’t want to be anything. I don’t know what I was, but I can’t be
anything.’

‘And what would you say if I told you--’

‘I wouldn’t,’ said Twemlow, again, with his eyes closed, and his chin
lying on his hand, ‘tell you. I would only tell you.’

‘--If I told you,’ said the Doctor, with his face looking out of his
window, ‘if I could assure you that I was much respected and honoured,
and much valued, even by those who knew me in my poor childhood, and
always had a respect for you that you have not felt yet?’

Twemlow, after again showing that he never would remember it, said, ‘Pardon
me. I should think so!’

‘I am much respected and honoured, and much valued, Mr Twemlow, by
those who know me, and who are wont to say so. I should like to assure
you that I am thankful to you for your kindness, and that, to my old
learned and trusted friend, I will give utterance. I am thankful to you
for your great kindness; and I will say at once, that I hope you have
very kind thoughts, and that you may have a kind heart. I have had a bad
heart, and I hope I never will have another like it. I hope you have
very kind thoughts, Mr Twemlow, and that you may be careful of yourself
twenty hours. May I implore your pardon, Mr Twemlow?’

Twemlow, thus, entreated, with his head still bent, but with the
sympathetic action of imploring a man’s worthier to his level and
understanding his sufferings, ‘O Mr Twemlow, I implore you once more. I
hope you have very kind thoughts, and that you may have a kind heart, and
may be careful of yourself. May I implore you, Mr Twemlow, to be considerate,
and to try you?’

‘I have tried myself, Mr Twemlow. I have tried you, dear Mr Twemlow, I
have tried myself, and I don
====================
I am a disappointed drudge, sir. I care for no man on earth, and no man on earth cares for me.’

‘Ah, but you are not worthy of me?’

‘I never was worthy of you, sir,’ said Mr. Winkle; ‘far from it.’

‘Far from it,’ said the other. ‘I suppose you careless, sir.’

‘Do you think I care for you?’ Mr. Winkle asked, in a low tone.

‘Oh, no,’ rejoined the other. ‘You don’t know what you say, Mr. Winkle.’

‘No,’ said Mr. Winkle, slowly shaking his head. ‘I don’t.’

‘I can’t speak to you, sir,’ replied the other, lightly rubbing his
forehead. ‘I can’t stand it, sir.’

‘There!’ exclaimed Mr. Winkle, looking up. ‘Don’t stare, Mr. Winkle; it
ain’t the slightest provocation.’

‘Oh, I am so wery sorry, sir,’ murmured Mr. Winkle, in a low tone, as he
poked his friend in the arm with his elbow. ‘I hope you’re not a-
tired, sir?’

‘No, no,’ said Mr. Winkle. ‘I hope I don’t inconvenience you, sir.’

‘Oh, certainly,’ replied Mr. Winkle. ‘I shall be very happy, sir, to
hear you express yourself with a smile. I don’t mean to be a-shy, sir; I’ve
done it.’

‘You have heard me say that I am not going to shut you out on any
account,’ said Mr. Winkle, with a smile.

‘Tut, tut!’ said the other, ‘that’s a wery good remark. I d-not think I
understood you. Anyways, I like your manner of saying it, sir. It’s very
turn-up, indeed.’

‘I am sure I must say I do,’ replied Mr. Winkle.

‘Come, sir,’ said the other, ‘say it again. You can say it any more; you
can’t hold it back any more.’

‘Thank you, sir,’ said Mr. Winkle. And very heartily, he repeated it,
without any change of manner, before turning his face away.

The other gentleman then, with a graceful and rapid step forward, put his
finger in Mr. Winkle’s right hand, and disappeared.

Mr. Winkle gazed on this unexpected visitor for a few seconds, and then,
expatiating on his style of speech, turned to the company.

‘Professor,’ said he; ‘Professor Lazarus.’

‘A fine fellow!’ said the partner.

‘A fine fellow indeed, Professor; most remarkable among fellows of that
sort, I assure you,’ said the partner.

‘I am delighted to hear it,’ said Mr. Winkle.

‘Well, sir,’ said the partner, ‘to hear it; and I am quite sure you are
delighted too, sir. Well, sir, you’ve heard enough. Don’t you think you
must have heard enough, sir?’

Mr. Winkle replied, with a countenance of tremendous grimness, ‘I hope
I have!’

‘Dear me!’ said the partner, ‘I wonder you haven’t forgotten him, sir.
He was a very dear fellow, Professor, too; I’ve heard him say that he was
born to be a Marquis.’

‘Indeed!’ said Mr. Winkle. ‘How could you forget him, Professor?’

‘Oh, you have never forgotten him, Mr. Winkle?’ retorted the
partner.

‘Oh, no, sir,’ rejoined Mr. Winkle. ‘I _have _remembered him.’

‘Dear me!’ said the partner, ‘
====================
I am a disappointed drudge, sir. I care for no man on earth, and no man on earth cares for me.’

‘I say,’ said Mr Merdle, ‘you’re a disappointed drudge, and I care for you.’

‘Sir,’ said Mr Sparkler, with a faltering tongue, ‘I should not have thought it
of you. You are indeed.’

‘It is of no use repeating sentiments that are at least as old as the
language in which they were uttered,’ said Mr Merdle. ‘I know how old they
are.’

Mr Sparkler, in a tone of resolute reassurance, continued, ‘To the best of my
belief, sir, I have been disappointed.’

‘Oh, sir!’ said Mr Merdle, with an imprecation on his eyes, and his
loosening of his throat. ‘No, Mr Sparkler! Upon my life, I should think not!
The cause is my own, sir, and not of mine.’

‘Ah, to be sure!’ said Mr Merdle. ‘It appears to me a very good-looking
place, Mr Merdle.’

‘Very good-looking, sir,’ said Mr Sparkler, with his eyes on his
coat-collar; ‘very, very good-looking.’

‘And a very long street,’ said Mr Merdle.

Mr Sparkler, with his eyes on his waistcoat, and his waistcoat drooping
with his eyes on his legs, and his legs drooping with his eyes on his
waistcoat, and his waistcoat drooping with his eyes on his legs, and his legs
drooping with his eyes on his waistcoat, and his waistcoat drooping with his
eyes on his legs, and his legs drooping with his eyes on his waistcoat, and
his waistcoat drooping with his eyes on his legs, and his legs drooping with his
eyes on his waistcoat, and his waistcoat drooping with his eyes on his legs,
and his waistcoat drooping with his eyes on his legs, and his legs drooping
with his eyes on his waistcoat, and his waistcoat drooping with his eyes on
his legs, and his legs drooping with his eyes on his waistcoat, and his
waistcoat drooping with his eyes on his legs, and his waistcoat drooping with his
eyes on his legs, and his legs drooping with his eyes on his waistcoat, and
waistcoat drooping with his eyes on his legs, and his waistcoat drooping with
his eyes on his legs, and his legs drooping with his eyes on his waistcoat,
and his waistcoat drooping with his eyes on his legs, and his waistcoat
drooping with his eyes on his legs, and his waistcoat drooping with his
eyes on his legs, and his legs drooping with his eyes on his waistcoat, and
waistcoat drooping with his eyes on his legs, and his waistcoat dropped
with his eyes on his legs, and his waistcoat drooping with his eyes on his
legs, and his legs dropped with his eyes on his waistcoat, and his waistcoat
drooping with his eyes on his legs, and his waistcoat dropped with his eyes on
his legs, and his legs dropped with his eyes on his waistcoat, and his
waistcoat drooping with his eyes on his legs, and his waistcoat dropped with
his eyes on his legs, and his ankles dropped with his eyes on his waistcoat,
and his waistcoat dropped with his eyes on his legs, and his right leg dropped
with his eyes on his arm-chest, and the other dropped with his eyes on his
neck, and the other dropped with his eyes on his chin, and the other dropped
with his eyes on his forehead, and so on, until at last there was a total
collapse of all these objects, and a very quiet victory.

‘I leave you, Mr Merdle, with a little love-potion, and a letter,’ said
Mr Merdle, ‘and I leave you to find the love-potion in your own
mother’s box, or in Mrs Merdle’s box, or at the corner of the little
street in the little cloister at the top of the house, or at the little
church that is the litter, or at the little clock on the little tower, or
at the little fountain in the little fountain by the little stone in the
====================
I am a disappointed drudge, sir. I care for no man on earth, and no man on earth cares for me.
If I am not honored by every morsel he offers, I deserve it for my own sake.
The time is not so long, sir, when I should be content to be a beggar in a
street, or a pauper in prison. Will you allow me to shed some more tears?’

‘I will,’ said the Doctor.

‘Shall I?’ asked Mr. Dick, in a voice of earnestness.

‘When your own poor heart,’ said the Old Soldier, ‘has been at rest,
and you have had your fill of human tears, will you spare me another?
You are a young man, Mr. Dick, and I am old. But you needn’t be so
troublesome to me as to make me uneasy. I know what I know.’

Mr. Dick, in the midst of his usual conviviality, sat looking out
of window, as if he knew something very alarming.

‘If I am not troubled,’ said the Old Soldier, ‘my duty to society is
not to say I am a bad man; I know society can’t be troubled. But I
think society--particularly you, Mr. Dick--is troubled, and I can’t
help thinking it is.’

‘I would rather be troubled,’ said Mr. Dick, still looking out of window,
‘than have--’

‘Don’t say you would rather be troubled, Mr. Dick. I know society’s troubled.
Don’t say you would prefer it; but you would rather be troubled, Mr.
Dick.’

Mr. Dick, as he stood looking out of window, seemed to have two faces
confronting him. One was that of a man who was in his element, and who had
come to the old asylum from the counter-insurgency. The other was that of a
man who was troubled--troubled, as the expression takes him--and who was
looking out of window in search of the means of discharging his mental
ambition.

‘Perhaps,’ said the Doctor, ‘your opinion is that you are a kind of discharged
student.’

‘A discharge student?’ repeated Mr. Dick, with the old squint.

‘No. Rather an old one. Has a mort of family down here, who have been
deceased and gone to the South of England. Perhaps you recollect “the
hospital” of London, Mr. Dick?’

‘Yes. The London hospital?’

‘Yes.’

‘Very like the hospital of London,’ said Mr. Dick, with an expression
of face as pusillanimous as if it had been in the English police.

‘Is it a very like hospital?’ asked the Doctor, in a tone of moral
conviction.

‘I think it is,’ said Mr. Dick.

‘Very like,’ said the Doctor, with another look at Mr. Dick; ‘but of course
you’re your own master, Mr. Dick, and must expect that.’

‘I am my own master, and the master of my own heart,’ said Mr. Dick.

‘And I the mistress of my own purse,’ said the Doctor; ‘and you and
your husband are your own mistresses, and must be very careful how you
do.’

Mr. Dick, who had by this time become quite resigned, looked round him
with the air of one who was resigned to the fact, and was far from
confident whether he ought to have resigned more.

‘Now, Mr. Dick,’ said the Doctor, after a long interval of silence,
‘what I want to know is this: Does your husband, who has been the
source of all my fortunes and care, appear to be satisfied with his
domestic sphere of action, and with the prospects it presents?’

Mr. Dick looked at the Doctor as if with a sense of his own
importance being strangely relevant to the question; but, as the
Doctor looked steadily into his face, and never raised his eyes to the
speakers’ faces, Mr. Dick slowly lifted his head and ate it, and then
climbed out of the room.

‘Now, Mr.
====================
I am a disappointed drudge, sir. I care for no man on earth, and no man on earth cares for me.’

‘So I say,’ said the other, ‘and you bear it like a man, and I bear it like a
man.’

‘I bear it like a man,’ repeated Mr Meagles, ‘because you have not abandoned
the cause of my people’s interests. You have kept my people’s interests
in mind always. When I say that I am a disappointed drudge, I mean
that when I say I have disappointed a man, I mean that I have disappointed
a man.’

‘A man’s disappointed drudge,’ said the other.

‘Exactly. When I say I am a disappointed drudge, I mean that I have
already disappointed a man.’

‘And I tell you,’ said Mr Meagles, ‘I am disappointed myself, and so
hollow out the phrase you have never mentioned. I mean that if you
don’t forget it when you come to me, you will leave it off altogether.’

‘When I say I am a disappointed drudge,’ resumed Mr Meagles, ‘I mean a man--
not an angel.’

‘Not an angel! You mean a man’s anointed to disappointment, and anointed
to disappointment.’

‘I don’t claim to be anything of that sort. But I mean that I have
already disappointed a man. I have already been disappointed myself, and
that the end comes at last.’

‘You don’t mean to say you’re anointed for that?’ said Mr Meagles.

‘No,’ said the other.

‘Then I say,’ resumed Mr Meagles, ‘that I am disappointed myself; and
that the end comes at last. I am disappointed myself, and I say so. What you
may come to, and may do, I will not do. I am not a man to stand by while a
man stands by while he stands by. If he fails in his object, I can’t
believe it. If he succeeds, I can’t believe it. And even if he fails
in his object, and succeeds, how then I know that I have failed in
my object, and that I should have done better in supposing the man to be
sensible of the case?’

‘You don’t mean that,’ said Mr Meagles, with some impatience.

‘No,’ said the other, ‘and no more so than if he had been me. Even supposing
that he had failed in his object, and succeeded where I failed, and
already did, and was successful, it would be no reason why I should detain
you with such a tedious repetition. Now,’ he said, ‘you have a right to
think well of me, and I have a right to think well of you; and I won’t
let you interrupt me.’

‘I interrupt you!’ said Mr Meagles.

‘Dear me!’ said the other, ‘why not, Mr Meagles?’ The other, evidently not
undering the necessity of repeating himself, looked at Mr Meagles, and
at Mr Meagles, and at Mr Meagles, and at himself, and at everybody; and
then, going on with his thoughts, gradually brought them to the
disappointmenting conclusion that the discomfiture should be avoided, and
that the cause of relief should be promoted.

As they did so, they had much improved the time, and the occasion
was not so new to them. But, now, it came back again, and they were
already tired of one another.

‘Now, I have said I’ll leave you,’ said Mr Meagles, laying aside the
cobwebs and dust, and giving his hand to Mrs Gowan. ‘But you must
think well of me, and, if you have any engagements, say so.’

‘I will, Mr Meagles.’

‘I will, and I mean to do so. But I must have your views and your
opinions. You know my standing with the landladies. You know the credit
that I should be at the disposal of these. You see that I have no
interest in them, except to receive the little I
====================
