Liberty, equality, fraternity, or death; — the last, much the easiest to bestow, O Guillotine!

The time came, and the day came, and the night came, and the day still came when
the old castle of Guillotine was heard to tremble, and the old chimney whispered
in old tales, and the old order of the dead still went about, proclaiming the
great delusion that the world was ending, and that the days were
gone that they must be buried in vaulted tombs, and that their his
steps and their tombs were one and the same.

It came, in its season of time, that the king and queen of France, who
had been at variance durin long years, should come to such accord at last.

Little Dorrit was a young creature for many years ignorant of the real
state and history of things in France. A mere orphan then, who had
faded out of common life, and bequeathed to its various hypocrisies and
persecutions. Little Dorrit was but a child herself, little trained in the
very arts of cruelty and malice. She was of a fair complexion, and
had herself been at no great distance from the snows of France.

Her father was the king of great nobles, and his sister the queen of
gaudy and costly beauty. Her brother was the cardinal-prize, and the
trot. He was the talk of Paris, and he ruled over it with an iron hand.
France was well and good, and it was respectable, and it was well to
have it. But the Romans had squandered it, and Spain had squandered it.
The Vikings had done it. The Moors had done it. The Normans had done it.
Ever since that time, there had been this sort of thing. And now
it had come to be widely believed, and every day more and more the
standard story told, that France was so wicked, so rapacious, so bloodthirsty,
so all-powerful, so terrorful, so merciless, that the wicked must be
chosen out of the good among us.

Ever since that time, it had come to be supposed by the French as a very
charmingly romantic country; and it had come to be supposed by the English
as a very chivalrous country, when we had had the pleasure of observing
its deserts. Whether it was the charms of the Poets who remembered
the golden golden age, or of the Philosophers who seemed to have forgotten the
dark ages, or of the Saints (who were the true Saints) who seemed
to have forgotten the golden age) that had given them the idea of a
saintly pastoral country, the Paradise was delightful. Ever since,
there had been a sort of Romantic romantic belief in the excellence of
the French Nature; and it had been this, until very recently, that we had
had the pleasure of visiting Paris.

But, then, as we came nearer to the race of the year, and got round
to the race of the quarter round, it became the fashionable mode to
reproach the Romans, as the cause of all that was bad and bloody in the
world, and to remind the Romans that they (the talkers, and the
conversers, and the rowers, and the group of fours) were so many
men down in the Chaos; and that the Romans, possessed of that much
more splendid and more genteel sex of men than the average man,
could not possibly be compared with that superior race of the Romans,
who, after all, were but the Romans of the West, and the Romans of
the East.

It is worthy of remark, in the next place, that we are not, as a nation
in general, to be compared with other nations. We have done the
remembrance, and we can do it again.

The Remainder of the Gauls
The Gauls were a people of a rugged and bloody tinge, of the
height of a quarter of a mile, and possessed--in the case of the
river-side--a very wide and cultivated margin of field; in the
case of the inland, they were divided into two classes; in the case of
the inland, into three classes; in the case of the inland, into
four classes. Their manners, their sleeping forms, their dreams, their
hunger, and thirst, were all Gaulish; their speech, and their
wake, and their sleep, and their hunger, and thirst, and famine--all
Gaulish. Their church towers, their steeples, their dignitaries,
their governors, their generals, their judges, their ambassador
to the next world,
====================
Liberty, equality, fraternity, or death; — the last, much the easiest to bestow, O Guillotine!

The uncle proceeded to propose three articles; on the impossibility of
arranging a circle of immediate deductions from the facts; on the
absence of an attestation from any authority, to show that the prisoner
had been deliberately framed; and on the still more difficult and
time-consuming process of proving beyond all doubt that the prisoner
had been viciously murdered. The natural inclination of the
privileged parties, as they saw him two hours hence, to favour the
opponents, was no objection to their receiving the matter with
coolness and simplicity. The only question was,--Should the
privileged parties wait for the said attestation from the authorities
before beginning their work?

The authorities were inexorable. They said, they had it. He had it. They
had prepared the ground for it, and it would be produced at once. He
was ready.

Mr Brass, with a solemn sense of his youth and his pride, and his
impertinence in the circumstances of a hurry and a commotion, was
waiting at the bar for the prisoner when the Honourable Secretary
entered.

‘Mr Brass,’ said Mr Brass, ‘I entreat to be allowed the honour of your
friend’s looking over the prison wall. It is one of the great
terrors of our time, that the unfortunate man, who in the hours of
breakfast--who, genteelly, morning, early, and deplorable--should be
held in this way.’

‘Sir,’ said the Opposite, ‘you should not detain me in suspense.’

‘Well, Sir,’ said the Honourable Secretary, ‘I detain you, Mr
Brass, to say this: that I had the honour of knowing you in your
early days, and of conveying to you the intelligence you have just
indicated. I leave the immediate vicinity of the scene of
action to the nearest authorities, to whom I shall be most happy to
propose your locality. It is far, far better, gentlemen, that the
vast mass of facts and rumours which are the life and death of
a town, should be quietly hushed by its respectable and self-respecting
hospitals, as if they were frozen in ice.’

‘Sir,’ said the Opposite, ‘you had the honour of being with us last
week, and of sharing the last part of your breakfast with me. Did I
not see you in your travelling clothes?’

‘Sir,’ said the Secretary, ‘I did not.’

‘Were not they a little uncomfortable, sir?’

‘Sir,’ said the Opposite, ‘you have a right to ask. I cannot say of my
self what consideration I entertained for your Eminently Young
Person. I am not ignorant of her merits, and I can tell you what consideration
I entertained for her. If you would like to hear her arguments, Mr
Brass, I would recommend you to do so. These arguments, sir,’ as he
pointed to the table, ‘are not only against me, but against many thousands
of other gentlemen--against the very existentials of the institution
that I am about to mention. Is that it?’

‘Very much so,’ assented the Secretary, ‘these are arguments of a very
powerful nature. They are presented in the papers, sir, for the first
time. In short, Mr Brass, they supersede all other arguments, and
have hitherto had the merit of occupying a very influential and
trivial place. Now, let me be taken down the river and have a look at
the nearest authorities. The nearest authorities are the magistrates’
counsel, sir. They submit themselves to a very high form of scrutiny,
and submit themselves to the power of arresting, imprisoning, and
serving jail-time upon, a great number of fashionable gentlemen and
genteel ladies (exact figures not impossible, sir), in the very
nearness of the action. This very respectable and very necessary
possession has been already mentioned, as being one of the great
advantages of the times; but it has also conferred a certain
ill-favoured and a certain unpleasantness upon the proceedings. It
is only necessary to say that this very respectable and very necessary
possession has been at all times and times disputed and maintained. Now,
if this very respectable and very necessary possession should ever be
inquired upon, at the expiration of
====================
Liberty, equality, fraternity, or death; — the last, much the easiest to bestow, O Guillotine!

‘I am to go to him in my own room at night, to the house of my very dear
friend, Sophy, where I shall see her, and to hear what she says, and be
as near death to her as I can be to myself. And I shall kiss her, and
have tea at her house: if it should be necessary.’

The child, in the midst of her sobs, clasped her hands with her
ears together, and implored the mercy of the prison officials.

‘Come, come, mother,’ said Mr. Wopsle, ‘we will not quarrel. Sophy, my dear,
come here, and be safe.’

The wretched little creature, in the midst of her supplications, could
have shown no compassion--could have shown no weak or helpless
anxiety--could have uttered no cry of distress--couldn’t have sung the
tribute she owed to the aged and departed silence! The poor girl’s
last words were, ‘My dear Sophy, I am safe, I love you, I miss you, I
love you dearly.’

The visitation was of no moment, for Mr. Wopsle had already left the
prison, and he had gone fast away. As he crept away, he beheld the
child with her hand drawn through his, and he beheld her gazing fondly
upon her lost and tired eyes, and clutching the old blanket with both
his hands.

‘Dear Julia, I love you!’ he repeated, smoking a long pipe. ‘Oh, I
love you dearly, I adore you dearly, I am filled with lively love for
you, while I can. I shall not be able to speak to you by your own
resurrection; but I shall say a few words here, and you shall say a few
words there. Sophy, my dear Sophy, let us walk away to the warm-baths
together, where there shall be a hot blast of smoke.’

The child, with her eyes opening wide, and her little bosom swelling with
the desire and desire to embrace him, leaped upon its right foot, and
caught sight of the guard.

‘Oh, my dear Julia, you are safe. You are not in danger?

‘No, no. Oh, no!’

He held the child tight by the hand.

‘I feel safe now. Oh, I feel very happy. Oh, I feel so free, so free!’

The guard held the child tight by the hand.

‘If you could have seen this room, when I was the only child in it, with
only my little face to look at it,’ he said, ‘I should not have known
this room had not been yours, and you had given it to me. But, no, no--not
then. Oh, Miss Wren, Miss Wren!’

To this Miss Wren he consented, as she saw him, and said: ‘I love you,
I honor you, I--’ and again he paused, and struck the little child to
rest, and put its hands in his own.

‘I have loved you, and I honor you, I--I--I love you dearly,’ he
said, again and again, striking the little child. And then, as he
felt more free, and again as he grew more free, he shed tears upon the
house and upon the little child.

‘Oh, my dear Sophy, you must think this lovely?’

‘Indeed it is.’

‘And you think it very lovely?’

‘I do, indeed.’

‘Why, I never was so lovely a little thing,’ cried Mr. Wopsle, sobbing
violently, and throwing his arms about the little creature; ‘I never
was such a dear little thing, I never was such a loving little thing,
I!’

‘You are a little thing,’ said Miss Wren.

‘I am, I am,’ sobbed Mr. Wopsle. ‘I--I--I have a weakness of
Wunnerhood; a weakness of Wunnerhood, Miss Wren. I am afraid I am a
weak--’

‘Oh, you don’t mean what you say, don’t
====================
Liberty, equality, fraternity, or death; — the last, much the easiest to bestow, O Guillotine!

“I’ve got a friend in Mr. Bumble, of the name of D. R. F.,” said the private
gentleman.

“What?” exclaimed the private gentleman.

“He’s a dissolute, base, wicked villain,” said the private gentleman.

“He is a villain of some cruelty,” said the gentleman with the
swaggering air.

“Oh!” exclaimed the private gentleman.

“Oh!” exclaimed the gentleman with the sharp look.

“Well,” said the gentleman, “I think you had better get him out of the room.”

“I suppose you did, Sir,” said the angry gentleman.

“I think you did, Sir,” said the private gentleman. “Now, how dare you
withdraw a servant’s attentions to a private gentleman? How dare you, Sir,
when he has the honour of being your friend?”

“I don’t answer to that,” said the angry gentleman, responding to the
injured gentleman’s contempt.

“What honour do you think it worth to a private gentleman to have a
passion,” said the private gentleman, angrily; for the humiliation of
asking to be allowed to say what he thought a private gentleman ought to
say?

“Oh! It’s all very fine, Sir,” rejoined the private gentleman. “But I
think the honour of a private gentleman having a passion is something more
than a person ought to have.”

“I don’t wonder, Sir,” said the angry gentleman. “I am a man of honour.”

“Is it?” said the private gentleman.

“Yes, Sir,” rejoined the angry gentleman, with a great shaking of his
head, “I say, it’s all very fine, Sir, but I think the private gentleman ought
to have a wife and family.”

“But is a man of honour a woman?” inquired the private gentleman.

“Well, Sir,” rejoined the private gentleman, “I don’t answer to that,
Sir. But I answer to this question. What is a man of honour to a
woman, Sir? Is a man of honour to a woman, Sir, if he can’t satisfy her, when
he can’t satisfy himself that he has the satisfaction of satisfying her?
That’s a question, Sir, which you may decide to your yourself, Sir, to be
answered.”

“I think you were answering it Sir,” said the private gentleman.

“I was, Sir,” rejoined the angry gentleman.

“I ought to have been,” gasped the private gentleman. “I think you were
preaching on the truth, Sir.”

“Preaching on the truth!” exclaimed the private gentleman. “I tell you,
Sir, I think you were overdoing it, and you ought to have said more.”

“I say,” said the private gentleman, “I say, I say, you were overdoing
it; you ought to have said, “Mr. Bumble. Upon my word, I think you ought to
have said,” and you didn’t, and you didn’t. Why, you see I have a case for
you.”

“I honour you sir,” said the private gentleman, “with all my soul,
though you did it in a heartless, selfish, devil-may-care sort of way.”

“And with my head, Sir, likewise.” With both.

“I think that, Sir, you had better leave off your guard, and come to the
grating.”

“And you will leave off your guard, Sir?” said the private gentleman.

“Yes, sir,” said the angry individual. “And you will come to the
grating.”

“Come to the grating, Sir?” said the private gentleman.

“Yes, sir.”

“Well, sir, here’s a curious little boy, with a black
====================
Liberty, equality, fraternity, or death; — the last, much the easiest to bestow, O Guillotine!
Honour the head that was before him, and all the family that was to be!’

As the words fell from him, the face and neck, and the handsome head,
formed a beautiful expression.

‘He is a man of few words and a bad hand at an odd-job,’ said Fledgeby.
‘He’s a hard man to get rid of.’

‘Hard indeed,’ assented Mr Meagles.

‘And he must be a hard man to get rid of,’ continued Fledgeby, with a
swagger, ‘but he has a good spirit, and he wants to get rid of me.’

‘Hard indeed,’ said Mr Meagles.

‘And I must say,’ pursued Fledgeby, ‘that I think his spirit is about to
be ruffled.’

‘I hope you are right,’ said Mr Meagles.

‘I am not,’ replied Fledgeby, with a show of gruffness worthy of a
barbarous executioner, ‘I am not about to deny that he is a very bad
man, and that he has a bad head, and a bad spirit. But he has a good
head, and a good spirit; and I can’t boast of more than one. If we
don’t take it for granted that both are good heads, we cease to be
surprised, and become as well satisfied as if we had taken it for
granted all along. Now, what I am about to say, or what you can reasonably
suppose I mean, I consider in this order.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      And so ends the first
half-hour of one o’ these days.’

Fledgeby had made a decent pause, which perhaps might have been considered
an impertinence in his friend, but was instead broken by the admirable
preservation of his spirit.

‘But now,’ said Fledgeby, ‘coming within sight of that house I
renew my acquaintance with Mrs Boffin. Not only that, but I come
into possession of a little piece of real estate, which, all in
it, I shall call, in form of words, 'The Bower.' How it all
took shape I needn’t tell you.’

Mr Meagles, after glancing at the direction of the drawing-room,
took his hat, and the three friends glided in at
====================
Liberty, equality, fraternity, or death; — the last, much the easiest to bestow, O Guillotine!’

The final note of the night-tunes he threw off, wrenched the long-abandoned
tunes out of Mr. Stiggins’s hands, and bade him ‘take ‘em all out,’ and that,
distrusting his legs, he carried ‘em home,’ and that he left them there to
guillotine, to be broken at the heads of the men, all night.

‘And now, Mister Thomas,’ said the Doctor, as he settled the time and the
place for their departure, ‘I’ll devote the evening--if it’s
any distance up--to the general arrangement of my little little collection
of antiquaries, such as you have described. You must make haste to
Paris, or you will not be admitted on the jamb.’

‘As you please, Sir,’ replied Mr. Stiggins.

‘Monsieur the Marquis, I will,’ said the Doctor.

‘At ten precisely,’ said Mr. Stiggins.

‘At ten precisely,’ said the Doctor.

‘At ten precisely,’ said Mr. Stiggins.

‘In the evening, at ten exactly,’ said the Doctor.

‘At ten exactly,’ said the Doctor.

‘At ten exactly,’ said the Doctor.

‘In the evening,’ said the Doctor.

‘At ten exactly,’ said the Doctor.

‘At ten exactly,’ said the Doctor.

‘Monsieur the Marquis, I will,’ said the Doctor.

‘At the Opera,’ said the Doctor.

‘At the Opera,’ said the Doctor.

‘At the Opera,’ said the Doctor.

‘At the Opera,’ said the Doctor.

‘At the Opera,’ said the Doctor; and then there was the usual lamentation
‘Monsieur the Marquis, I will,’ and repeated with great emphasis and
voice, ‘Monsieur the Marquis, I will,’ until the very end of the play;
which seemed to me to terminate in the complete obliteration of Mr. Stiggins.

I was so surprised, that I looked to Mr. Pickwick, who was always expected to
have something to say.

‘Thank you, sir,’ said Mr. Pickwick; ‘I hope you have made a comfortable
dinner, sir. I had one myself.’

‘I hope you have not been long in London, Sir,’ said the Doctor.

‘London!’ said Mr. Pickwick.

‘Yes, Sir. I have been in London,’ said the Doctor.

‘Dear me, Sir!’ said Mr. Pickwick.

‘I have been a correspondent of the Junction,’ said the Doctor; ‘I have
been a correspondent of the Junction, in all sorts of places, and at all
levels. I have done everything in my power to make your acquaintance,
Sir, to the best extent, and I have not succeeded.’

Mr. Pickwick expressed his sense of this fact, and said--

‘I should like to ask you, Sir, whether you think you have the right to
proceed against the Doctor for slander and libel?’

‘I believe I have no right to do so, Sir; I should like to say I have no
right to do so, Sir.’

‘Well, Ma’am, I suppose you have,’ said Mr. Pickwick.

‘I am sure, sir,’ replied the Doctor, ‘I am very sorry for you.’

‘I am very sorry for you, Sir,’ said Mr. Pickwick.

‘My goodness, Sir,’ said the Doctor, ‘I am exceedingly sorry for you.
You had no right to bring this action against the Doctor, sir,’ said
the Doctor, looking at Mr. Pickwick with a feelingly air of tenderness, and
smiling charmingly.

Mr. Pickwick smiled again, and the Doctor rubbed his hands with an air of
perpetual resignation, as if he thought there really was no helping the

====================
Liberty, equality, fraternity, or death; — the last, much the easiest to bestow, O Guillotine!
And so they went on, and their names glided gracefully off the
chests as they passed along.


‘It is easy to see that this utmost conceit is alive in the breast of
its owner,’ said Mr. Pickwick.

‘Alas!’ said the other, ‘what a pitiful fellow you are!’

‘Ah, to be sure,’ said Mr. Pickwick. ‘What a companion he is!’

‘Companion?’ said the old man, patting him on the neck, as if he were a
little patient, and wished him to be more particular.

‘Companion,’ repeated Mr. Pickwick. ‘Companion of what, I rather think?
Dog or cat?’

‘Cat,’ said the old man, shaking his head. ‘And the dog too; I rather think
the dog.’

‘The dog?’ said Mr. Pickwick.

‘Ay, and the dog too,’ said the old man. ‘Ah, good fellow. I rather think
the dog.’

‘The dog?’ repeated Mr. Pickwick.

‘Ay, and the dog too;’ said the old man. ‘And the dog too; I rather think
the dog.’

‘She is a very good dog,’ said Mr. Pickwick; but, observing that the old
man was looking intently at his companion, and not at his wife, he
sat himself down in a chair, and began to write with his pen upon a
sheet of paper.

‘Halloa!’ said the old man, when the letter was finished. ‘What’s this?’

‘What’s this?’ repeated Mr. Pickwick.

‘A letter for you,’ said the old man, with a smile. ‘Dear me! I thought you were
gone!’

‘No; I am not gone,’ said Mr. Pickwick, looking earnestly round.

‘Dear me,’ said the old man. ‘I thought I was gone.’

‘Dear you,’ said Mr. Pickwick.

‘Dear me,’ said the old man, with a slight smile, as if he were glad to
have obtained leave of absence without loss of time. ‘If you’ll allow me to
ask you, sir, what do you suppose they want?’

‘I think they want, I suppose,’ said Mr. Pickwick, in a helpless,
desperate manner.

‘Dear me,’ said the old man, ‘I can’t write.’

‘Can’t write, sir?’ repeated Mr. Pickwick, with a look of madness.

‘No, no,’ said the old man, ‘because those who want to have you to
learn how to do certain acts of magic, have been doing it, for a long
time. Do you suppose they can spare you a minute, sir?’

‘An hour,’ said Mr. Pickwick.

‘Dear me,’ exclaimed the old man.

‘Dear me,’ said Mr. Pickwick.

‘Dear me,’ said the old man, with a smile. ‘I am very much afraid you’ll
be taken ill again, sir.’

‘Certainly,’ said Mr. Pickwick.

‘Dear you,’ said the old man, with an angry shake of the head. ‘An
imagine.’

‘Dear me,’ exclaimed Mr. Pickwick.

‘Dear me,’ said the old man, ‘what a mother he is! When he was here
when you were a baby, he used to come up to me, shake my hand, and
bark me to sleep. Don’t you remember that, Mayday, dear?’

‘I remember it,’ said Mr. Pickwick.

‘No,’ said the old man, ‘though it ought to be very pleasant to me
to think that he might have been a little more wicious when he was old.
And when I say that
====================
Liberty, equality, fraternity, or death; — the last, much the easiest to bestow, O Guillotine!

The last house moved, and the old man reclined in it with a countenance
tigerish, while his son, who had been with him from his first birth,
retired to his own apartment, and, still retaining his hold on the
dumb-waiter, tried to get his head droop-free. Here, his father, being
disengaged with the handle and the seat, and not being able to get his
head droop-free, fell into a fitful sleep, from which he was only awakened
by the other boys waking him up, in a loud violent sound.

‘Hollo!’ said the old man as he looked round him, ‘what’s going
forward?’

‘I said to my son I’d give him the old boofer lady a bottle of
warm brandy-and-water,’ said the son, ‘and I’ve left her here to
take a dip in the hot tub.’

‘Gone?’ said the old man, with a stare.

‘Yes, sir,’ said the son.

‘What was you a-doin’ in the hot tub?’ inquired the old man, with a
countenance of derision and disgust.

‘I’ve been a-doin’ somethin’,’ replied the son.

‘Never mind, I says,’ said the old man.

‘Ask ‘em to do it, you wenerable natur,’ said the son, eyeing him
suddenly. ‘I right you, sir. I’d do it myself, if I could.’

‘You ought to be ashamed of yourself,’ said the old man. ‘Ask ‘em
to do it, you id’liss town rat!’

‘Well,’ said the son, ‘I’ll do it myself, if you like, sir.’

‘Well,’ said the old man again, ‘give me your neck and arms, and I’ll
help you to the hot tub.’

The boy did as he was told, with a grateful and most blest face; and
with great merriment and simplicity, took his seat in the bark, and
brought in the water, which velveted itself off him into a large
glass jug, fastened at the bottom together, and held up by a string.
The old man, with his arms crossed, and his head thrown back, and his
eyes fixed on the jugs, while the boys adjusted their loin and the
shoes adjusted their boots, and the woman adjusted her dressing, and
the master adjusted his stick and the rest adjusted their clothing, and
they all zeroed in on the task at hand, with the greatest
precipitation and diligence. The old man, with his right arm drawn through the
bark, and his left arm drawn through the fire, and his right leg
resolved on the vertical with the air of a man who had found an
amazing idea and followed upon it, sat and watched as the men accomplished
their task, with a fixed attention, and with an eager and eager
habits of turning about and about, and of making up by experience
the different motions of their own limbs, without losing sight of
the object at which they were moving.

‘We have got a person,’ said the old man, with his fingers at his
nose, and his head thrown back, and his eyes fixed on the ground, ‘in
waiting who may tell us whether he can answer for the damage he has
done to himself.’

‘What will you take?’ asked the boy.

‘I will take a shilling,’ replied the old man. ‘Twenty shillings.’

‘Good!’ cried the boy. ‘Then I’ll make that answer.’

‘Pray!’ said the old man, with his nostrils stretched out as far as
sight, and with a haggard look.

‘I will not object, if you will,’ said the boy, ‘to your asking me
to do so.’

‘Good!’ exclaimed the old man. ‘Now you begin to be a more practical
man, and you’ll find
====================
Liberty, equality, fraternity, or death; — the last, much the easiest to bestow, O Guillotine!
SOME AFFAIRS OF THE HEART AS A CRY FOR A SECRETARY.

‘I have been thinking, Sam,’ said Mr. Pickwick, ‘that we had best leave this
part of the business to Mr. Dowler. It looks like a place to--to
extend and deepen the influence of the gentleman you have mentioned.’

‘Quite so,’ said Mr. Weller; ‘and perhaps he may think it a good
venture for himself, and for us too, to try a new and opening field.’

‘It would be a new and an opening field, Sam,’ said Mr. Pickwick, with an
air of generous suavity; ‘far from it--far from it.’

‘What do you think?’ inquired Mr. Weller, with a glance of distinguished
admiration at his friend.

‘I think it would be a very good and serviceable idea, Sam,’ replied Mr.
Pickwick, with a smile, ‘to give notice that this is the last and the
last week on the present Compagnon of Paris, and all the changes that
will be made in the way of life consequent thereon.’

‘Dear me!’ exclaimed Mr. Weller.

‘Samivel, Samivel, Samivel,’ said Mr. Pickwick, ‘you are absolutely right.
I shall strive to have the notice of the last day on the gibbet. I shall
take my leave, Samivel, with all my heart. I will not fail to see you
when I am no more. You have done me a world of justice, Samivel. You never
could have done me more.’

‘Wishing you a very happy parting,’ said Mr. Weller, he dropped his
hat, and slowly and gravely bent his head upon his cup.

‘Wishing you a very happy parting, and a kindly parting,’ said Mr. Pickwick;
‘and a parting that I am proud to receive, and I think you deserve, Samivel,
though indeed I am ashamed to say I don’t know for certain that is your
cause of it, a kind parting which I would not have witnessed, and which I
have felt a strange sensation of pride in having let fall so much beauty and
honour for, though I know it to be yours.’

‘Wishing you a very happy parting, Mr. Pickwick, and a very kindly parting,’
said Mr. Weller, shaking his head gravely once more, and drawing his pipe
knees slowly to the fire; ‘and a parting that is well known to be the
last we’ll ever have, though it is not the last we’ll ever have again,
and, as the saying is, the next best to the next, how do I know you’re
failing?’

‘The Almighty bargain, Samivel,’ replied Mr. Pickwick, ‘you are as good as
necessary, and as useful a man, Samivel, as need be. You’re fit for
everything that is done.’

‘O you are, are you?’ said Mr. Weller, with an air of profound wisdom.
‘Well, I suppose you can’t say, Samivel, that you don’t know it, and that
you don’t know how useful you are, and how much you ought to do, and the
principal you ought to do, and the steps you ought to take for the attainment
them, and the steps you have already taken for the attainment of them.
‘You have done me many an advantage, Samivel,’ continued Mr. Weller,
‘and I don’t care for nothing. I know what a base old wretch I am. I know
that I am a mere rascal, Samivel. I know what a base old wretch I am, and
I know that I can’t abear to be asked, and that I know I deserve it, and
that I will perform it, and do it, and bring safety and happiness to the
people I have wronged. I know that the time is come when those people must
show themselves, and stand up for their rights and dignity, and not be
wretched and disgraced when they
====================
Liberty, equality, fraternity, or death; — the last, much the easiest to bestow, O Guillotine!’

It is difficult to be acquainted with the various degrees of
murder, when one is struck in the peculiarest manner by one’s
accident in a strange town, and scarcely alive to the object of
her revenge. Upon the occasion of this last attack, Miss Sally rode
in a hackney-coach against a set of proctors; and having got under the
wheels of the chaise, which had a view of the Royal Hotel, and
had left the round wheels of the chaise behind, proceeded to
dissuade the gentlemen of the Jury and the audience of the nearby
coffee-house that they might take notice of what was going forward, and
encourage the worthy man to act quickly.

‘We have heard,’ said Miss Sally, ‘of the fair young lady whose
death is imminent, and who, if I may wince a word, were ever you.’

‘She was a wonderful lady,’ said one of the gentlemen in the
corner.

‘She was,’ said Miss Sally; ‘meant to be. She was the dearest and most
loved girl that ever lived.’

‘She wos,’ said another.

‘Her viece was a wery like,’ added a third.

‘The young man vould have hit her,’ interposed Miss Brass, ‘and there’s
an injunction to the jury that they may find the young man.’

Several of the spectators looked dubiously puzzled.

‘How hath he been struck?’ inquired Miss Brass.

‘He was,’ said one of them, ‘a wery game wery smart, and a lovelie
traveller, and the jurors is very fond of game, and the jurors found him
not guilty.’

‘The young man vould ha’ kept his word,’ said another.

‘And he will keep it,’ said Miss Brass, ‘for the lady his going. She’s
very fond of the young man, and you may be sure that she wishes he could
come home and take his chance out of that affair.’

‘I wonder at you, Miss,’ said one of the gentlemen in the corner.

‘Why, I do, indeed, and you know as well as I do, that it’s wery common
with young men,’ replied Miss Brass.

‘Vell,’ said one of the gentlemen, ‘you’re a-going to keep your word, and
keep up your good opinion, and do or don’t take any more notice of this
once-for-last occasion, than you took of it?’

‘I will not take more notice of it than I took,’ said Sally; and as she
said it, she looked at the tall glass door, with the riveted cap
towards the Inspector, with a wistful look, and then at the tall glass
door, with the riveted cap tauntingly tauntingly tauntingly gazing up at
the Inspector.

‘But,’ said Miss Sally, ‘I had better say that I’ve found out a friend
of my own, who happens to be at that present in want of you, and
who happens to be a friend of Mr. Jingle, and we are one and the same
and are going to have a tea-party at Mr. Brass’s, at the George and
Wemmick, and are all travel-travellers, and will bring home the
same tea-things, and will all come to your house, so that you may
see them every day; and that’s all I know about it.’

‘There’s nothing like a woman with her clings and her feelings,’ said
the Inspector.

‘Ah,’ said Miss Brass, ‘there’s a true a woman with her matters and her
feelings, Miss--a genuine a woman, Miss--’

‘Oh,’ said the Inspector, ‘you should know such a woman as Miss Brass
would have done well to be.’

‘I assert that for my part,’ said Miss Brass, ‘there is not a woman on
earth with as much spirit and fortitude as Miss Brass, or with
====================
