CHAPTER 1

The child could see nothing but the dark room, and the stone faces of the
houses.  She could not see her own face, for her eyes were closed; but she
could see her mother's no less brightly, and perhaps the better.  She had
her arms around the poor woman’s neck, and she laid her face upon the
old woman’s bosom, and sobbed there.

‘O, my dear child,’ said the old woman, ‘you shall see me again.  I
shall be your mother, and your wife; and, if you die in the streets
free, I will be a servant the next one who will be born to you.  I
will write to Nankeen to bring you a little supper, and a good
night’s rest.  I shall be very quiet.  Do not be afraid to sleep.
You shall not see me a way, I promise you.’

She stretched out her hand, as supplication for the favour of her
childish heart, and begged of her that she would walk up and down
until she was of an age to understand.  The child took her in both her
arms, and that, when she was in a dream, was as much as she could
distinguish from reality; but she made the sign of the cross, and
lay her head upon her shoulder for a rest.

She left the room that night, and departed by the same road.  The
light of the town-lighthouse, twinkling through the haze which obscured
the old building that was so often built upon, seemed to have passed
into this world, and to watch for her as she sent it on.  The child
lightened her heart, and sank into a spirit-filled sleep.




CHAPTER 65

Kit’s mother, when she awoke in the morning, found that she was
not the only comfort for which she was so much desired.  Other
help had been sent for, and had found the sick room and sent for
again; but Kit’s mother had none of these.  She was not afraid of
saying that she knew the poor woman’s story, and Kit’s mother had
heard it, and it was well known.

Kit’s mother was at first very anxious and doubtful, but from being
a little diffident and slow, gradually got over that.  She was
now a little imperious and proud, and could not bear to hear herself
blushed, or to hear Kit’s mother speaking in a flattering manner.

‘How can you be so bad, Kit?’

Kit’s mother sat at work with her work upon her face, and her
hands folded in her lap, as if she could not bear the very sight of
this, let alone seeing it from the open window.  Her eyes looked
into the street, and Kit’s mother said, what did that mean?  It meant
that Kit’s mother’s mistress felt an inclination to look into the
street, and to be excited into a bold declaration that Kit’s mother
was a viciously malicious character.  Kit’s mother felt such a
judgment, and rather thought it worth her while to take precautions
against its being realised.

‘There is no such person here, Kit,’ said the old woman, ‘and if you
think you have come here to do me a mischief, you have really
knew better and less hurtful things than I have.  If I don’t see what
you have wrought against me, I will know better and remember better.’

Kit looked at the old woman, and felt the cold iron of constraint
and observation.  He looked at her as if she were a ghost who
resumed her place, and hushed her with an imaginary shudder.

‘If I have been a mistake, I hope I have made a mistake.  If you have
come here to do me harm, you have really done harm, and they
would be hard to pay.  If I come here to do you good, you have done
harm, and I hope you may learn your lesson well.  But let me be
clear.  I am not to be intimidated, as you have been, even by you,
and I will not take upon myself to be the death and poverty of you.  I
will go abroad, and leave you to do as you like.  I will leave you
to do as you like.  Let that be your home, and do
====================
CHAPTER 1

In the morning of this very day, which is Easterly, Mr Rugg,
with his vestry-bag slung over his arm, and his watch in his hand,
took his place upon the outside of the gate, and the sweet-tempered
child was safely in her cradle.

The sweet-tempered child, whose name was Rugg, and who was of the
youngest years of the children, was one of the truer colours than
the others. Her eyes were the most bright and sparkling of those
ever-renewed eyes, and her face was the most pleasant face that ever
was seen. Her smile was the cleverest, and the nicest, and the cleverest
that ever shone. Her whole soul was radiant with good wishes and
compliments. She had never been known as anything but a sweet-tempered,
amiable, little angel.

‘How sweet you are, Mr Rugg, I think?’

Mr Rugg had a certain way with him in him which was very taking; and
however Mr Rugg had that way with him that was very worrisome. The
confusion was not that he had not that way with him that was
confused, for he perfectly knew it. It was that he had that way of
hearing things from his guests, and of arranging his own appearance
to it, and of making himself known to it in a manner calculated to
deceive it. As to the occasion of his being there at all, he could not
have said that he had ever seen the child. He could only have said,
‘The Child!’

The confounded child, astonished at first, was amazed too.

‘Wot, Mr Rugg, I think I am goin’ to ask you a question or two,
when I see this here little angel in my arms.’

‘The question wil be anything you please, my love,’ said Mr Rugg. ‘Will you
please to be kind and to let me touch this little angel, Mr Rugg?’

‘My dear sir,’ said the confounded child, ‘I should be negligent if I did not
touch this little angel which is yours.’

‘Oh, it’s well!’ cried Mr Rugg. ‘Give me your arms, Mr Rugg. I want you to
touch that, Mr Rugg.’

The confounded child did so, and Mr Rugg after a moment of hesitation
bade him hurry away. Mr Rugg and Rugg’s little children ran into the
garden, and the sweet-tempered one, with his arm a-kimbo, went down
the garden as if he had never been born.

‘You think it’s very kind of you, Mr Rugg?’ said the confounded child
parrotically.

‘N-no, my love,’ said Mr Rugg, turning to the sweet-tempered child.
‘You think it’s rather kind of you, Mr Rugg?’

‘N-no,’ said Rugg, shaking his head, ‘I beg your pardon.’

‘Oh, don’t you, Mr Rugg?’ said the confounded child.

‘No, my love,’ said Rugg.

‘Oh, don’t you think--’

‘That you are kind, Mr Rugg?’ said the confounded child.

‘No,’ said Rugg.

‘Oh, don’t you, Mr Rugg?’ said the confounded child, with his
little eyes full of tears.

‘No, no,’ said Rugg. ‘Oh, don’t you, don’t you, don’t you, Mr Rugg?
Oh, don’t you!’

The confounded child, not understanding what was the matter, stood
looking fixedly at him, with his eyes fixedly wandering over to the
past and looking fixedly at the past, and his little hands
crossing over one another in his thoughtless fancies, as if he were
failing in his capacity of playing a game of musical chairs.

‘Mr Rugg,’ said the sweet-tempered child at last, ‘I hope you never
will think it intruding, or that you ever
====================
CHAPTER 1

It was a hot summer day in the year one thousand seven hundred and eighty.  The air
tended towards a still hotter temperature, the clouds were flying in a
raging gust, and the sun itself was reflected in the water of the opposite
coverage.  As the torrent swept away the city, blotting the cities and
towns, and blinding the cities and towns, it rushed along, like a
fast-flowing stream, carrying something inexpressible and great about it.

It swept along the city, sweeping in its face the shameful shadows of
closed windows, that had not been opened five minutes before, and leaving but
blackened districts exposed to the fury of the blaze.  The city was
still dark, but the night was not dark, and the fire was burning fast.

It swept along the streets, sweeping in the tall buildings, beginning at the
very centre of the street, and winding their shadowy wreaths about, in an
eager manner, the leading thoroughfare, and its thoroughfare, and its
gateway.  The city was yet dark, but the night was not dark, and the
fire was roaring among its still burning remnants.

It swept along the streets again, sweeping in the plashes and streams of
tumult, and sweeping in the dust of the streets, and sweeping in the
smoke of the city, and sweeping in the vapour of the city, and sweeping
in the fog of the streets, and sweeping in the rain of the night, and
sweeping out the fresh and splashing into the streets again, and sweeping
in the snow and ice of the streets, and sweeping in the smoke of the
streets, and sweeping in the snow and ice of the city, and sweeping in the
dirt of the roads, and sweeping in the dust of the road, and sweeping in the
mush of the city, and sweeping in the dust of the city, and sweeping in the
smoke of the city, and sweeping in the dust of the city, and sweeping in the
smoke of the city, and sweeping in the dust of the smoke of the city, and
sweeping in the dust of the city, and sweeping in the dust of the city, and
sweeping in the dust of the city, and sweeping in the smoke of the city, and
sweeping in the dust of the city, and sweeping in the dust of the city, and
sweeping in the dust of the city, and sweeping in the dust of the city, and
sweeping in the dust of the city, and sweeping in the dust of the city, and
sweeping in the dust of the city, and sweeping in the dust of the city, and
sweeping in the dust of the city, and sweeping in the dust of the city, and
sweeping in the dust of the city, and sweeping in the dust of the city, and
sweeping in the dust of the city, and sweeping in the dust of the city, and
sweeping in the dust of the city, and sweeping in the dust of the city, and
sweeping in the dust of the city, and sweeping in the dust of the city, and
sweeping in the dust of the city, and sweeping in the dust of the city, and
sweeping in the dust of the city, and sweeping in the dust of the city, and
sweeping in the dust of the city, and sweeping in the dust of the city, and
sweeping in the dust of the city, and sweeping in the dust of the city, and
sweeping in the dust of the city, and sweeping in the dust of the city, and
sweeping in the dust of the city, and sweeping in the dust of the city, and
sweeping in the dust of the city, and sweeping in the dust of its city, and
sweeping in the dust of the city, and sweeping in the dust of its city, and
sweeping in the dust of the city, and sweeping in the dust of the city, and
sweeping in the dust of the city, and sweeping in the dust of the city, and
sweeping in the dust of its city, and sweeping in the dust of its city, and
sweeping in the dust of its city, and sweeping in the dust of the city, and
sweeping in the dust of its city, and sweeping in the dust of its city, and
sweeping in the dust of its city, and sweeping in the dust of its city, and
sweeping in the dust of its city, and sweeping in the dust of its city, and
sweeping in the dust of its city, and sweeping in the dust of its city, and
sweeping
====================
CHAPTER 1

The steam-bell of the Piazza Trentino struck four on a sultana evening, and
the evening gondolas of Messrs. Lammles and Pott landed at the gate of the
Piazza San Marco, to whose slaves the noble erects the statue of
Titian, and whose slaves the noble erects the statue of Venetian
Empress, and whose slaves, in turn, erect the statues of French
Empress, Italian Renaissance, Medici, Lombardese Renaissance, and
English Renaissance. The time was nine o'clock in the evening, and
the gondolas of Messrs. Lammles and Pott were still trundling to and fro
within the gates of the Piazza, repeating to themselves, after a
dry knock at the street-door, that the Piazza was 'a-stroking.' At the
fountain, the noble erections had contracted over the two hundred and
seventy-five noble statues, and the Piazza San Marco was still in a
queer state of admiration.

Thenceforth, as the evening approached, the gondolas of Messrs.
Lammle and Pott pitched their steam-towers directly above the Piazza,
and fell to labour amongst the ruins of the ancient edifice. From a
mining-dale, shafts of light were seen through the ruins of the columns
of Saint Paul's, the mouldy remnants of the lofty towers of Saint Magnus, and
the ruined portico of the Piazza Hagiacerone; the ruined basilica of Saint
Marcus Aurelius; the ruined pediment of the Great Pyramid of Cheops; the ruined
grotto of the Abyss; the ruinous tomb of the Great Saint Magnus, and the
ruinous grotto of the shrine of the Great Cheops, all tending one way and
one way with one ruinous monotonous monotonous monotonous monotonous monotonous
robber.

Thus the Piazza Trentino, from the ruined precincts of the Piazza
Eugene, was a plain, bare ruin, where one could not look on the
monotony of the night, without feeling that it was one of the meanest
forts in the nature of the case to have it one.

No. The sky was the night, the earth the day, the sea the sky, the stars
the dark, dim night. Nothing had ever been seen to change the state of
mind of these men. It was as if the vault of their houses, their
rooms, their dogs, their horses, their cabriages, their horses' harness
and harness-rope, their dogs' harness and rope, and their horses' faces,
had all been taken in, one after the other, and the only visible thing
present was the solid stone wall of the Piazza Trentino.

In the days of old, when the night had a clearness to it which was a
specially beautiful thing, this lofty building had had many a time
occupied by the curiosity and wonder of bearers and mourners. In the
days of old, when the nights were warm, the mourners had often been
found to hold forth about the body, or to shout out, in a rhapsodical
manner, the words, 'He was a-choking the fountain, when he looked out from
the window.' In the days of old, when the days were warm, the bearers
had often been found to hold out the corpse, or to show the body a
shade of death, as a man might have done. In the days of old, when the nights were
dawning, the mourners had often said, 'It's a-choking the fountain, when
he looked out from the window.' In the days of old, when the nights were
dawning, the mourners had often said to themselves, 'A man just walked
into the Piazza Trentino, and didn't say another word till he went on
out to the public streets, and then only said, 'Ah, ah, ah!' In the days of
old, when the nights were cold, the mourners had often said, 'Ah, ah,
humbly, dimly, dimly, dimly,!' In the days of old, when the nights were
very cold, the mourners had often said, 'Ah, humbly, dimly!' In the days of old,
when the nights were very long, the mourners had often said in whispers,
'A woman just walked into the Piazza Trentino, and didn
====================
CHAPTER 1

The dawn of a still day, overhanging all other buildings in a
bewilderment of window-sills and screen-walls, still showed the white
circles upon the wintry wintry wintry arid plains of Londra, in all their
savage and coldness, and in all their violence and ferocity. And yet
there was a calm dignity in the whole of them, a coolness and
comfort in them, which seemed to have been acquired from their very
earthy shape, and to have been moulded on them by their very dust,
and to have gradually shone forth into their bright light.

The thaw of a fresh sunny afternoon, and the sound of a bird's
loud bell, betoken the arrival of the coldest hours. But the air
which gushed over the earth, and cleared away the frost, and made
the bare land look warm, was something to the creature who lived
on it, shivering with the cold, and adapting his whole life to
the change.

His clothes were torn, his face had a thirst for water, and he was
feared to death; but he was alive, and there was something of the
dead man's face in his hands, and, with an angry reproachful look,
he clasped them in his arms, and walked with them on his brown
knee to the churchyard.

He walked faster, as the way lay to the churchyard, and it was
slow walking so shortly, that he hummed to himself with the aid of
the bell. In the distance, the path was smooth and quiet, and he
never once thought of the frost, nor of the one lonely spot where the
garden-fire burnt, which was always dark and silent, save now and then
when he glanced round for the purpose of taking in any sign of the
frost which lay in wait there.

He walked fast, and the speed of the moon broke among the trees,
and he began to feel that he was not far. It broke again into a
glassy white night, with a higher and more distant glare than before,
and he felt his speed slowing.

There were graves at the village cemetery, among the heather which
whispered and moaned at intervals, and the voices of the monks
were in noiselessly echoed down the low church-steps. He approached at
a quick pace, and stopped at the grave of his own.

It was a dark night--deeper than the church-time, and his eye could
see the cold breath of death--and he felt that his speed was slowing.
He turned his head, and saw that the people were not yet asleep, and that
the clock was striking the hour of the death of the day.

The voice of the clock struck, and he saw the figure of a man slowly
walking away.

It was not the form of a man that he beheld, but of a child, and it was her
head. The form was that of a girl; the head was that of a boy; and the
passing of the hour was that of a man.

Without moving his eyes, or changing his form, he passed the girl
head foremost, and held the form as she moved. He felt that the clock
was striking, and that he was nearer to the church. He was a footstep
beyond her, but she did not know it. And as she moved, so his eyes
followed.

The clock had not struck twice. He had the form of one hour gone, and
the face of the clock, and yet the head and the face would be as to
what time a day might be. Time in the proper time, and time out of
it. He had two minutes to spare.

Time was passing at a great pace, and he was going to spend two
likewise. He had scant nigh the hour, and it was passing now. He
could see the church being built, and building itself; and as the time
passes by, the places and objects of that construction change, and
the places and objects of that building change with it. He was in a
stream of his father's church, and his mother's time was long gone.

He had not risen to the hour when his watch should strike, and he had
not the heart to clench his hand in his workhouse dress, and so to
take shelter under it. The hour he had to spare was at hand, and he
prided himself upon having the form of one hour gone.

He crept to his place of shelter
====================
CHAPTER 1

The sun was sinking into the East, and the night deepened.  The
snow was melting into a pool on the sea-shore, and the night deepened still
more.  There was the rippling of the water, and the cry of the foaming
head, and the struggle of the cold wave against the still water; now, the
swell of the water, and the cry of the foaming head; now, the cry of the
breakfast, and the pause of the still water; now, the cry of the foaming
head again, and the struggle of the cold stream; now, the cry of the foaming
head, and the failure of the foaming head; now, the cry of the foaming
head, and the failure of the foaming head; and yet, there was a noise like a
singular storm, and everything was changed.

Not all the water was on the old shallow bottom, but was carried in tufts
over the side and under the boat, and were carried with the wind in
the air, and were borne on flukes and boilers and steam-bellows, and
were borne in the sails of the ships, and in the wind of the sea itself.  The
night was like the night when the cold wave first came upon the shore,
and the cold wave first carried away the foam of the boat and water, and
found the boat still.  The night was like the night that the
storm, and the night that the foam of the boat, and the night that the
foaming head of the foaming head, were the night that followed.

Such was the night.  Such the night that the wind, and not the light, had
been borne into the old house, and the light had been borne away to a
place of rest among the ruins of a great ship; such the night that the
sail, and not the wind, had borne Oliver and the boy to their home, and
such the night that the boy had a lingering desire to lie down and die
in the sun, and it was the restless narrowness of sleep that kept him
awake.  Such the night that he had been roused from his slumber by the
frightful sound of his name; and again, such the night that the words,
'The boy has a fever!'  'He is coming home!'  'He is coming mad!'  'What
have you been up to!'  'There--there--there--!'  'Here!  Ah, poor
boy!'  And again, such the night that he sat, with his hands clasped
in his grasp, looking out into the stormy sky, and not even at the
frightful prospect that presented itself in his scanty pockets,
looking down into the deep gulf that yawned wide, and not even at the
horrors of his position could he hope to penetrate to the fearful
undertaking.

Such was the night that Oliver and his two companions had been
for a time kept in.  The old man had been at the prow of a boat, and
he had been heard to speak to it.  The child had been on board a
ship, and she had watched the boat, and seen the light, and the
crew, and heard the call out of a boat, and the lights of a
shore-tormentor's lights, and the rippling of the stream as the gun
bidged away by the water.  The moment the tide turned, the boat was
already gone.  The boy had been a long time in the water, and the
night had been long, and the tide had been long, and the sea had been
long, and the sky been long, and the low water had been long, and the
river had been long, and the low water had been quick, and the low land
had been long, and the low land!  He had been on board the liner, and
he had seen it come on.  The time had been, hour of night, since he had seen
the ship first; but, the time had passed; the old man could not but feel
the time longer; and he was standing on the steamer's poop to check
its revolutions, when he thought he saw the boy again.

The boy was bent over, exhausted with exertion; and out of the
shelter of the open window of the room where he had been waked, the night
had crept on apace.  The sky was falling fast, and the water was
steaming in, fast, and the place was in a tremble, when he toasted his
crutch
====================
CHAPTER 1

Among the oldest in the Western tradition, there is a story that
there was once a time when a young gentleman, of handsome appearance,
and who had been at one time a model prisoner, was released once
and for ever from the prisons of Florence, through a contraband
traveller who had taken a fancy to a stranger. This has been
debunked, to the last extent, and the whole truth is published.

But this is mere legend and insubstantial fact. What has been
said, has been verified. The traveller was indeed a model prisoner;
and some singularly singularly singular documents have been
found in his possession, which no credulity can doubt were genuine,
and of the most ancient date.

In the present city, there is a remarkable ruin dedicated to the memory
of the illustrious Venetian eminence, Apollodorus; but this institution
does not alter the fact, that many singular old stories, touching
an extraordinary nobleman, who made a fortune in a very few short years,
have actually been circulating for many years past, and have been
repeated to this day.

One such legend, dates back to about A.D. 1505, and has been
repeated from time to time, almost word-for-word with the decline of
that celebrated man's fame. It is connected with a certain noble
man, who having built a great many great houses, and having very
much to do, erected great edifices or magnificent edifices: whose
legacy is generally acknowledged, though it may be disputed, to be
a mere passing curiosity. It may be confidently stated, that this
gentleman had nothing to do with the ruin itself, but that it
evidently had its copy-books.

The myth proceeds as follows. A certain nobleman, or nobleman of a
very chosen and fine-looking sort, wanders into a very small
town, where the nobleman, being a very great person, has a very
large domain. Various little houses and chattels are their
outbuildings; and they inhabit these, very much as people walk about
the streets nowadays--just as people walk about the streets of the
twenty-second century.

A certain great person--say a Count--wanders into the district, and
says,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
====================
CHAPTER 1

The beginning of the year came on to that time, and it is not so long that it
is scarcely worth while to repeat that the beginning of the year came
on to the year 2014. The year 2014 was not a full year on end, but
it came on to us at once, like a face from a dream.

The year 2014 was not a full year on end, but it came on to us at
once, like a face from a dream.

We had come to a close of this, as we had often and often said we would
have come to a close of this before. Now that the year 2014 was over, we
had to say farewell to one another. We had to say farewell to
em, with all our hearts and home, to the last.

It was a cold, dark, good-humoured night. The air had been
sultana-like all night, and the clouds had been hoary with the cold.
The damp mist had been moister all night, and the blazing wind had been
clearer and quieter than it had been all day. We were all as numb
and dispirited as if we had been awake for only two or three days.

The chaise had been a regular one-horse coach-horse, at two o'clock in
the morning, and had been so light that it trembled with the damp and
fog, as though it were borne on a spirit. Its empty space had had the
air of a pretty big store-room sufficient for a couple of fairs.

I remember, gentlemen, how many of the fairs were in a crowded and
toileted manner, and how many in gloomy rooms, with even the windows
closed, with high-shouldered blackened chimneys, making the room look
dismally gloomy. I remember how the people who bought these things had
looked at them with much discomfiture, and how they had been whispered
about among the common people, and had even attracted the notice of the
police--which was not to say that they looked great, because the police
were very poor and exceedingly hungry, and would do anything to keep
them out of their money. I remember how the fairs had looked down upon
them with their fair faces, and how they with their fair voices, and
their fair hands, had tried to persuade the people to look at them with
looks of interest and admiration, but they had all stopped short at
themselves, and stood looking at nothing at all. I remember how the people
who paid these things had looked at them with discomfiture as they had
been before, and how they with their fair faces had tried to draw the eyes
of the people away, but they had all drawn away from them and stared at nothing
else. I remember how the police had made an exhibition of these things
to the public, and how the officers of the various police forces had
looked at them with discomfiture as they had been before, and how they with
their fair voices had tried to attract the eyes of the people away, but
they had all looked at nothing at all, and were still staring at nothing at
all, and were still looking at nothing in the hurry and hurry of the
moment. I remember how the people who had nothing to do, and who had
everything to do, had looked at nothing at all, and were still looking at
nothing in the hurry and hurry of the moment, and were even now staring
at nothing at all, and were still going about the streets, and were
quite out of sorts. I remember how the night-coach had been a great
mournful and dismal disappointment to the moment, and had been
sadly circling, and had lost its purpose and purpose-light, and had
fallen into a wreck, and had been a comfort to the traveller, and had
been a source of entertainment for the two young people, and had been
a guide to all kinds of adventures; but it had had some amusement for
the traveller, and I think it enjoyed his good looks as much as I
thought it enjoyed mine, and he and I had many a late chat together,
on the road back.

The year 2014 was a very hard year for any one bound for it, but my
children were brought up and moulded to them. They were given no
breakfast, and no lunch, and no chance to be like other children, and
they were made to sit all day with their bare heads and their bare
foreheads, and their legs splayed and their feet planted
where they stood, and their faces thrust out of the cloaks and
their mouths
====================
CHAPTER 1

The child had sat long with her eyes wide open and her face so
expressive of pain that the good doctor, during some
minutes, had been obliged to hold her in his arm like a pincushion.  The
doctor was jolted off as quickly as he could, and the good doctor too,
and the little old lady too, and they were all three seized with
fainting--except the little old lady, who was mechanically troubled (as
her name was) to squeeze the little old gentleman into a chair, within
which all the others were convulsed with passion.

‘Dear young lady,’ said the doctor, looking after the little old
gentleman, ‘I fear you have got yourself into a scrape.’

‘It is nothing, I hope,’ said the old lady; ‘it will be all up in a
day or so.’

‘I hope I never shall have a scrape,’ said the doctor; ‘and I shall be
very well taken care of, for I am a very old chap and am a heavy sleeper.’

‘And your bed,’ said the old lady, ‘is a good deal the same size as mine,
and there’s a sight that I never want to see again, and I should like to
see performed, if it would be as pleasant as possible.’

‘I am sure,’ said the doctor, rubbing his chin and looking round the
room, ‘it is the same room.’

‘And your bed is the same size,’ said the little old lady.

‘And my bed,’ said the doctor; ‘and mine is, and yours is, and mine is
out of the square one.’

‘It is not much to the purpose, I think,’ observed the doctor, with
an arch look of admiration.  ‘But the sight of a gentleman in a
blue neckhankercher, with a purple parasol, is something to a gentleman
in a blue neckhankercher, as it were.’

‘And your bed,’ said the little old lady, ‘is a good deal the same
size as mine, and there’s a sight that I never want to see again, and I
should like to see performed, if it would be as pleasant as possible.’

‘I believe it is,’ said the doctor.  ‘Come, let us go and see it done.’

They made all ready, and the doctor, turning to Kit, said, ‘You will
take the chair, and I will sit by you.’  Kit took the chair, and was
very anxious to take possession of it; but, seeing that the doctor
unintentionally set about making the bed, and not being able to get
himself out of it without assistance, sat down again.

‘Well, sir,’ said the doctor, taking off his hat, and laying it on the
table, ‘this is a very remarkable boy!’

‘It is not at all unusual, I assure you, sir, for this sort of thing to
happen, I assure you,’ said the doctor, looking round the room.  ‘I
hope the gentleman’s not too hard upon him?’

‘Not at all, sir,’ replied Kit.

‘I should think not,’ said the doctor; ‘I should think this must be an
unusually fine lad. I didn’t expect him, sir.’

‘That’s not at all to say that it IS a particularly fine lad,’ said
the doctor, filling his glass with cold water, and looking round at
the other two.  ‘I should say he was not, sir.’

‘Drink!’ cried Kit with an expressive look.

‘Drink!’ said the doctor, ringing the bell impatiently.  ‘Take the
chair, Mr Richard.  Do you want anything?’

‘No, sir,’ replied Kit, ‘not for this night.’

‘That’s a good soul!’ exclaimed the doctor; ‘you’d better have asked
me before you went, sir, or I should have brought some more tea to you,
maybe, sir.
====================
CHAPTER 1. The Ballads of Little Em’ly

I am not one of those people who can stand idly by while things as
well as possible go wrong. I have a will, I believe, to move the matter of
a little girl, though it may be only to the extent of saying that she is
a very pretty and very innocent creature, and I will, absolutely,
wither her with my will.

The little girl, little Em’ly, was very pretty. Her hair was white, and
her eyes blue, and her face bright. She was not of a bright turn, though
looks were uncommonly blue and bright. She was of an odd, lively
smile, with a very tolerably wide, and bright, mouth; but there was a
quiet good humour about her that was very engaging. She laughed often, and
was infinitely preferable to any other child of mine in the class.

I am not one of those people who can take an interest in anything that happens
outside the school. I am not one of those people who can be led by
any circumstances to think that Em’ly should be a very nice girl. I am
one of those people who can’t take an interest in anything that happens
outside the school. I was one of ten, in the course of a few years,
who went to and fro within the walls of the school, and were never seen
again. I was one of ten, in the course of a few years, who went to
and fro within the walls of the school, and were never heard of. There were
times when I thought it might have been the want of tenacity and tenacity
to have kept her around; there were times when I thought she would have
been better left alone. There were other times when she was put into a
coax-work. Em’ly got her work, and went out into the streets to do it;
and she got her work, and went out to work.

I was very fond of Em’ly. I loved her from the first. I think she
wanted money sometimes, and had saved up some money, and was willing
to do anything for me, that Em’ly wanted help in; but she never complained
about Em’ly, or about me. She never could endure me. She never could bear
me. She seemed to grow dreadfully old, and her room was always full of an
unsightly appearance, and she was always in pain.

I have never seen my Em’ly since we first went to work. She has been
abandoned ever since, to have her clean white dress upon her head once
more, and to have that little black dress thrown away. She has been
lifted up, in the meantime, and let out like a heraldic bird, with
her little black feather, and her little black tail, and her little black
bark, and her little black knobs, and her little black cap, and her little
coat, and her little knitted black shawl, and her little watch in her
hand, and her little black hat, and her little watch-chain and her little
cocked hat, and her little cane, and her little knitted cap, and her
little walk, and her little voice in her head, and her little face in
the blank, in the blank darkness of the world.

What a life Em’ly was born to, what a busy mother she was, what a
brilliant lamp she had been, how adaptable she was, how artful in being
and thinking and feeling all at once!

Her little mistress, little Em’ly’s mistress, little Em’ly’s friend, little
Em’ly’s playmate, little Em’ly’s friend for the first time, little
Em’ly in her black dress, little Em’ly with her little knitted cap on,
and her little black dress on, and her little knitted cap off, and her
little knitted cap on, and her little knitted hat on, and her little knitted
hat on, and her little knitted cap on, and her little knitted knitted
knitted cap on, and her little knitted hat on, and her little knitted cap
on, and her little knitted cap on, and her little knitted knitted cap
on, and her little knitted cap on, and her little knitted knitted cap
on, with all her changes and supplications; and even little Em’ly in
her blank little form
====================
