'I am a disappointed drudge, sir. I care for no man on earth, and no man on earth cares for me. No man on earth has ever shown a light to me.’

‘Of course not,’ said Mr. Pickwick.

‘No man on earth has ever shown a light to me,’ repeated Sam.

‘I suppose it’s because you don’t want to see me,’ said Mr. Pickwick, as a
humanly acceptable response.

‘I want to show you a class of matrimony, Sir,’ said Sam; ‘if you’ll introduce
me, Sir, I’ll introduce you.’

‘Oh,’ said Mr. Pickwick, with his hand to his forehead. ‘This is a
very curious case, Sir.’

‘Very,’ said Sam. ‘I should never have thought of the matter, but for
the informer.’

‘You’ll introduce me at the office, Sir,’ said Mr. Pickwick.

‘Oh, that’s right,’ said Sam; ‘I’ll come straight to the gate.’ And
with a look of great satisfaction, he followed the two gentlemen out
into the street, and walked off.

There was a curious wind that stole up the street on the same
occasion, which was so piercing at intervals, that Mr. Pickwick felt
as if he were going in the opposite direction. It was night, and he felt
as if he were going out at a distance. The two gentlemen having by this
time arrived at the gate, and Mr. Weller and Mr. Trundle having drawn
them through the heavy mist which shrouded the place, he stepped into
the court, and was about to exchange a few words with the guard, when he
was suddenly stopped by the entrance of Mr. Stryver.

‘Is Mr. Pickwick in?’ said the little man, coming in, and speaking in a
hoarse whisper.

Mr. Pickwick replied in the affirmative.

‘Wery much the de-arternest’ thing that ever was seen, Sir,’ said the
man.

‘I beg your pardon, Sir,’ replied Mr. Pickwick, with a show of much
importance.

‘No, not very,’ said the man. ‘It’s a wery short peaking o’ course,
ain’t it?’

‘Oh, it is indeed,’ said Mr. Pickwick.

‘It’s a very few months since I was out, Sir,’ said the man. ‘I recevied
my letter.’

‘Oh,’ said Mr. Pickwick, ‘I hope it’s the wery letter; I’ve read it.’

‘I thought I had,’ replied the man, with a slight cough; ‘it doesn’t say
much in the way of new to me.’

‘It’s the wery letter, you know,’ said Mr. Pickwick.

‘I hope it’s the right letter,’ said the man. ‘I’m a-going to ask a
sir who’s the readier to speak to me.’

‘I’m wery much obliged to you, Sir,’ said Mr. Pickwick, with great
composure.

‘I’m sorry to say, Sir,’ said the man, with a sly look, and with a
disconcerting toss of his head, ‘that I’m in the same boat as you, Sir.’

‘Have you, sir?’ said Mr. Pickwick.

‘Yes,’ replied the man, with a kick at the door: which he kicked
several times, and then kicked more than once, in a very unbecoming
manner, to the great admiration of Mr. Pickwick.

‘Have you been here, Sir?’ inquired Mr. Pickwick.

‘Just, Sir,’ replied the man, with a wink and a smile. ‘And
made yourself so very glad, that I couldn’t help it, Sir.’

‘If you’d had the letter, Sir,’ said Mr. Pick
====================
'I am a disappointed drudge, sir. I care for no man on earth, and no man on earth cares for me. No man on earth has ever shown a light to me.’

‘Not a doubt of it,’ said Mr. John Smauker, shaking his head.

‘I have shown myself a gentleman of valour, and a gentleman of spirit,’ said
Riderhood; ‘and I will not be disgraced by presuming to differ from a fellow-man
who has shown himself a gentleman of decency.’

‘I hope,’ said Mr. John Smauker, ‘that the lady will not consider this
ill-conwenience.’

‘No, sir,’ replied Riderhood. ‘Not on any account.’

‘You will, I dare say,’ said Mr. John Smauker. ‘I hope you won’t think it
ill-conwenience, and feel a desire to--’

‘I think, sir,’ replied Riderhood, with a very wicked looking flick of
his lips, ‘that if I had been married, sir, you would have made me a
gift of some considerable money--say, fifty pounds or so, perhaps.’

‘Not a doubt of it,’ said Mr. John Smauker. ‘I am very sorry, but
I must say I am disappointed. I hope,’ added Riderhood, with a
sneer, ‘that Miss Wade will be at leisure to make any little additions to
their housekeeping--or, if they are little, say, to take a day or so at
Christmas.’

‘My dear,’ said Mrs. John Smauker, with a snort, ‘you are a little
temperate.’

‘I am very sorry,’ said Riderhood. ‘But it’s a sacrifice, a
sacrifice of two hours’ work, and a night’s holiday.’

‘My dear,’ said Mrs. John Smauker, with another snort, ‘you are a
delicate young man.’

‘I am very sorry,’ said Riderhood. ‘But I have a good yarn to knit,
a good eye to read, and a good head to mind.’

John Smauker, whose manner was becoming irritable, fanned up
the ashes out of his pipe, and put it in his breast, where he
considered it a most necessary business-day.

‘Now, Miss Wade,’ said Mrs. John Smauker, who had been taking snuff,
and who was becoming sensitive, the moment her husband left, ‘if
you will give him to understand, as a young man, that any objection
you may have to my marrying him, or to our taking him away, is not
religion, but mere folly, and I am a just God.’

She was so very hale and hearty in the sincerity of her purpose,
that she seemed to have another motive in all her talk, besides
its practical one. ‘My dear,’ she said, ‘I am not a bad fellow, and
you would never trouble yourself to marry me if you knew what was good for
me. I am a good creature, and I am very happy. If I can’t live as
well as you think, I have better do a better job than you think, and
never again marry you.’

John did not hear the earnestness or the beauty in these words, but
saw in them a slight insinuation that he was a little too old for the
jealousy of Mrs. John Smauker, and that he could not be persuaded to
marry her.

‘I am very happy,’ said Riderhood, ‘and I hope--’

‘I hope,’ repeated his partner, ‘that you will not think of marrying
me, Miss Wade.’

‘I hope,’ repeated John, with a hesitating action, ‘that you will not,
Miss Wade.’

The immobility of his manner and the solemnity of his action,
could not obscure Miss Wade’s face. She looked coldly at Mr. John
Smauker, and gave him no reply.

‘I am very sorry,’ said Mr. Roker, ‘very sorry, to have been the

====================
'I am a disappointed drudge, sir. I care for no man on earth, and no man on earth cares for me. No man on earth has ever shown a light to me.’

‘Well, well!’ said the Secretary, smiling. ‘I hope so, too.’

‘I am so disappointed, sir,’ repeated Young John, in the same measured and reserved
way, ‘that I have taken up with a girl who is not half so good as I can be, and
who would rather be a slave than a Queen.’

‘You mean positively,’ said the Secretary, ‘that you consider her half
damsel?’

‘What, sir?’ returned Young John. ‘Hear me out!’

‘You mean in effect,’ said the Secretary, with a steady look, ‘that you
think of her sister merely as the object of a suit?’

‘I have been very good to her, sir, and she is very fond of me,’
returned Young John. ‘But there are many things on which she is more than
half bound, and I am determined to pursue her without detriment.’

‘I have no objection to hear you say so,’ returned the Secretary. ‘It is
sharing her happiness. Hush!’

‘Why, of course, of course,’ returned Young John. ‘I should be very
unhappy, if I was to lose it.’

The Secretary exchanged his hat for a better, and then his gloves for
another, and a third, and so on, in which order he had them all put
back, one after the other, with as much care and as much pride, as if
he had been making a kind of perpetual bow to everybody in the office.

‘Now, Master Davy,’ said Young John, looking up from his paper,
as he sat himself down upon the large stool in the little hall, and
throwing his arms about Mr. Bumble’s neck, said ‘the old ‘un’ has
been a great friend to us, and has always driven me to the utmost
possible labour. It has been a very difficult time for me, and I have
lately come to the breaking-up of my engagement with the girl, as I
may say, in order that we may not be bound together in mind and purpose.
I have been much ashamed to part with her, and I have been much
sorry to part with a man I have so much respect for. And I should have
had no objection,’ adding with a little emphasis, ‘to part with a
man I have respect for, either.’

Mr. Bumble finished his punch as he spoke, and smoothed down his shoes as
he picked them up, and then sat down upon the stool again. There they all
stood, one by one, like pictures, for the picture was of the Gentleman
in the Robber’s Story, and the man was of the cloth, and the people
were of the cloud, and the colour was of the fire, and the sky was of
the earth, and the river was of the earth, and the work was of the
bricks, and the fire was of the wood, and the dump was of the stone, and
every detail in the river was of the river, and every object in the
stream and sky was of the cloud, and every man was of the stone, and the
depth of the red-hot sand in the water was of the stone, and the
salt and smoke in the air was of the stone.

Then, the Committee on Public and Promenading announced that a new
establishment had been erected on the spot, and that a clock therein
inhabited, honourably displaying the name of Mr. Samuel Pickwick, would
indeed be established to speak for the hours after six, and to speak
for the minutes after eight, noon being the hour of listing his name
in a newspaper. The committee had accorded the name to Mr. Samuel
Pickwick, after they had reviewed his picture, and had formed a
favourable conjecture concerning his occupation. The workmen, in the
composition of the establishment, had likewise formed a most correct
conception concerning the man of the cloth.

The committee had no sooner arrived at this satisfactory conclusion, than Mr.
Pickwick was first summoned into the kitchen, where he found that Mr.
Weller had taken possession of a very spare kitchen, and was engaged
in clearing away the dust, in which affair he had been
====================
'I am a disappointed drudge, sir. I care for no man on earth, and no man on earth cares for me. No man on earth has ever shown a light to me.’

He gazed upon her, in his fatherly pain, and she gazed upon him.

‘I have been so long away,’ said the young woman, ‘and so short of home, that
the loss of that companion is like the loss of a friend. I feel my loss so
tenderly, and I hope you will not think mine, John?’

‘I hope,’ he returned, ‘that you feel it too, my dear, as it is a
casual, common kind of loss.’

‘You are sure you never expected me to be so unfortunate, sir?’

‘No, no,’ said John. ‘I expected no better.’

‘It is a comfort to know that,’ said the young woman, ‘and I have no
fear of feeling unloved and neglected. I told John that I should
feel it more than ever, if I left him.

‘I am very glad,’ said John, getting on his legs, and putting the
little dress on, ‘that I have found you, my dear, so well. I hope,
too, that you always have found me so well after you were gone.’

He put his arm round my mother’s waist, and we all three stood
together; the young woman bending over me, and the father looking on.

‘You will be sure to tell him what I have told him, my love,’ said John,
putting his arm about my mother’s waist again, as he had done before,
and bending over me again. ‘I have told him, my dear, that I am a
poor creature, and that I am often and often deceived. I have told him,
my dear, that I am a broken-hearted woman, and a fallen good creature.
I have told him that I can never go back to him, never be the wife of
any one but a miser. He has never loved me, as I once love him, as I once
love him. It’s all in my own power.’

‘It is all in your power, John!’ said the young woman. ‘I would not
have you so, for anything I know, to think.’

‘My dear girl,’ he returned, smiling, ‘I have told him all. I am
thankful to say that I feel more than ever that time has gone by, and
that I know I have now a better understanding of him than I ever had. I
am more happy, both in this, and in the hope that it may one day be the
end of his misery.’

‘I have no doubt,’ she returned. ‘It was a timid thing to tell him, but
it’s a truth. It’s better for him to know the state of his own mind.’

‘My love,’ he replied, laying his hand affectionately on her head,
‘I have been so short with you, that I have not had time to think about it.
But, if you would have the goodness to come to my bed, and, as I often
do, to leave me, you would really do me a great service.’

She gave him her blessing, and went away, not far from his bed. He
sat down on the seat beside it, and took her hand as it lay. It was a
long, long time before he spoke.

‘It is a long, long time,’ he said, suddenly, ‘that I have been a stranger
in this place. It has worn thin and worn out. I have been unable to get
among the low stones and pebbles. I have seen no one passing through the
winding streets. I have had no opportunity of being in the little shop where
you and I bought the clothes for the day, or in the little church I often
sat in, and heard the waves crashing on.’

‘You have not been long in London, John?’

‘Loafs and ashes,’ he replied, with his former air of being made an
answer, ‘not half so long as I have been in London. But the distance has
made a change in me, and I desire to thank you for it.’

He sat down with a face so intent
====================
'I am a disappointed drudge, sir. I care for no man on earth, and no man on earth cares for me. No man on earth has ever shown a light to me.’

‘Have you nothing to say to me, dear?’

‘I have had enough to say,’ she answered, ‘to have said it all, and more. I care for no
man on earth as I do for you, and if I was not in the way of a good deal, with
a good deal of wrong in it, I should be quite content. But I have had plenty enough to
say, and I say it loud and long.’

‘I don’t understand you.’

‘That’s the trouble of being a woman, sir,’ said Miss Dartle, with a
great deal of quick force of character, as the lady of the caravan went on.
‘A man of your appearance, with a good deal of wrong in it, would never
have the temerity to come here, and I am afraid of that.’

‘Why do you say so?’

‘Because I am a woman, sir, and I am compelled to tell the truth.’

‘I don’t understand you.’

‘This is the vicious way in which you are treated, sir,’ said Miss
Dartle, sharply. ‘You are constantly spoken to as if you were a woman,
and treated as though you were a woman. Now you know you are not a woman,
and you are always treated as if you were a man.’

Mr. Lorry, not without a glance or two towards the woman as she stood
by him, interposed with a good-humoured smile.

‘But I am a woman, sir,’ pursued Miss Dartle, ‘and it is intolerable.
It makes me mad, and makes you sick. I don’t care who admonishes me,
or how many admonitions I get, I don’t care how many kisses I give, I
don’t care how many admonitions in return for what I don’t do. I
am an unstable woman, and I am always am a woman; and it is intolerable.
I tried once very long ago--but I failed.’

‘You are not to be blamed, then?’

‘I don’t know that I was set up to be set up to be set up at all,’
said Miss Dartle, shaking her head; ‘I have not the slightest conception
of such thing. I have never been set up to be set up to be anything, but
I might be set up to be set up to be set up to be a woman. It will only
be out of my power, and I know that it will be to the last in the end,
and it will be long enough. If I could have the happiness to set up a
gentleman to succeed me, I could do it in a few years time, I am sure
I could do it in a few years time, and I don’t know that I could,
unless I let it out.’

Mr. Lorry, with his eyes fixed on the door-step, could not repress a
flourish of the hand he seized, and began to cry.

‘It is enough,’ exclaimed Miss Dartle, turning her head in her
reluctance to him, and with her sharpened eyes upon her victim, ‘it is
enough to make any man kill himself, if he thinks proper to do it. And
it is only necessary to be very rash in proceeding against me, if you
are not to be killed yourself.’

Mr. Lorry got up, and, putting on his hat and shawl, with his
heart too full to let any breath go, went out at the gate.

‘I tell you, Miss Dartle,’ he said, sitting down on the steps
before the carriage, and softly touching her face with his hand,
‘that I think you are a little mad, and that I think you have been
over-taking yourself. When I was last in France, I thought nothing of
over-taking yourself. I didn’t want to know how you would like to
eat your dinner, or to drink your wine; but I thought it was a
good thing to be over-taking yourself. I am rather out-of-sorts,
Miss Dartle, and I think it’s a good
====================
'I am a disappointed drudge, sir. I care for no man on earth, and no man on earth cares for me. No man on earth has ever shown a light to me.’

‘No?’ said Mr. James. ‘What is it you say?’

‘I mean I care for no man on earth, sir,’ she replied, ‘and if a man has a
disposition to care for him, why, then he ought to care for HIM. I am a
dreadful rascal, sir,’ and was about to go away, when, catching sight of
her face, he stopped short.

‘I--I was about to say something else, I suppose,’ she began, ‘but as
I am in a state of distraction.’

‘You are right,’ said Mr. James. ‘I am in a state of distraction, madam.
I--I--don’t know what I am going to say.’

She was trying to stand up, and, in her desperation, it seemed to go
no farther.

‘The happiness of a man’s heart,’ said Mr. James, after a few moments
reflection, ‘is of the greatest moment; but there is a--a surface there
is, which--to call it by its name--can never be endured by--I
am in a state of distraction, madam. I--I--don’t know what I am going
to say.’

‘I don’t think I know what you mean, sir,’ she pleaded in earnest,
‘and I beg you to be so good as tell me.’

‘I am afraid, madam,’ said Mr. James, with a dejected look, ‘that I
am in a difficulty.’

‘I don’t think I know what YOU mean either,’ she returned, with
great composure. ‘I beg you to be so good as tell me.’

‘Sir,’ said Mr. James, taking off his hat and tying it on with a
determined look, ‘if I am in such a situation as that, can I possibly
be expected to--ha--to explain myself? I--I--don’t know what I am going
to say, madam.’

‘I don’t think you know,’ said the pretty housemaid, with a level
and calm look, ‘that you have a son-in-law.’

‘No, I don’t,’ said Mr. James, laying his hand tranquilly on the pretty
housemaid’s head. ‘It is a very long time ago, and I have only just
come, to say the truth.’

‘I am very much obliged to you, sir,’ said the pretty housemaid,
‘but I think my explanation will satisfy you, if you will allow me,
sir.’

‘Thank you, madam,’ replied Mr. James. ‘I have no doubt of your being
right.’

‘That’s the difficulty, sir,’ said the pretty housemaid, with an
unsteady hand. ‘I don’t know how I have come to the conclusion, sir,
that I could possibly have recourse to any other course.’

‘You don’t say so!’ exclaimed Mr. James, with a severe frown. ‘You
don’t say so!’

‘I have no doubt, sir,’ replied the pretty housemaid; ‘but I didn’t
know it, Mr. James.’

‘I am glad to hear it,’ said the bald-headed Mr. James. ‘It is a
great thing for me, personally, to have an attendant of your neatness
in my place. It gives me a--hum--a prospect of--hum--independence.’

‘Ah!’ said the pretty housemaid, who was not without a certain little
feeling, in her own eyes, for independence. ‘Well, sir! I hope it’s
just the same to you, as to me.’

‘I am sure it is, madam,’ replied Mr. James, with a look of the deepest
indifference. ‘I have no--hum--expression, I am sure
====================
'I am a disappointed drudge, sir. I care for no man on earth, and no man on earth cares for me. No man on earth has ever shown a light to me.’

‘You talked about a sister, Miss Wade?’

‘Yes, sir.’

‘A sister, sir? O, if you were to tell me, sir, that you were a sister, I would be
surprised and delighted.’

‘I never was a sister,’ said Miss Wade, with a glance towards the fire.
‘No man was ever a sister, as you are.’

‘And are you a married woman?’

‘My natural destiny has made me so, sir.’

‘A bachelor, then?’

‘Not exactly so, sir. I have become a bachelor, in consequence of the
condemnation I have undergone.’

It was not a pleasant surprise to hear this, and I could not help
saying, ‘I believe it was before you were married, Miss Wade, and you
have always been a bachelor?’ But she answered immediately, ‘I have
become a bachelor, in consequence of the condemnation I have had, and the
condemnation you have had.’

‘I should have been surprised, indeed,’ said I.

‘I do not, sir,’ said Miss Wade, ‘understand your words.’

‘No, indeed!’ said I.

‘I understand what you mean, sir,’ said Miss Wade, ‘and what you have
undergone. I have no doubt that you have a good husband, sir, and a good
son, and are in all respects worthy. I do not, however, understand your
intentions, and I have no doubt that you have an evil sense of what is
necessary to make a good husband, if you intend to practice the art
of dissimulation.’

I felt quite enjoined to take that precaution, for I saw that the
boy was going to be startled, and I knew beforehand that he would
be. I said, again I believed it, and I took it, and I took it.

‘Do you think, sir,’ inquired Miss Wade, with her air of scholarly
presence, and as if she were correcting me, for I knew what she meant,
‘that you could have restrained yourself better, if you had known what
I know you have suffered?’

‘I can’t say,’ he replied, in the tone of a man who is struggling against
some restraint, and finding it impossible. ‘I cannot understand you. I
can, however, guess what you mean.’

‘I don’t mean that you should have restrained yourself better,’ said
Miss Wade. ‘I am not going to guess.’

He looked at her sternly, and the action was so natural, so gentle,
of a sudden, that I was quite charmed. I can remember nothing in his
look that was not pleasant. He seemed to have been in a hurry to get
downstairs, and was not sure of his footing, and was only going to
strash and heave; but he got downstairs, and he looked at me as if
for my assistance.

‘I can’t thank you, Miss Wade,’ he said, in his placid manner: ‘but
I hope you will not be offended with me. I am quite new to the world,
and I should not have expected to find so many agreeable and useful
acquaintances. I am not alone, I am not a stranger, I am a tardy man,
poor fellow.’

‘I don’t think it is necessary, sir,’ she returned, with a slight nod of
her head, ‘but I think it is right to ask.’

‘It’s very true, Miss Wade,’ he said, with a smile, as if it were
expressive justice. ‘I hope you have not made a mistake.’

‘Do not be intently about it, sir,’ she returned, with a slight nod
of her head again.

‘Make it short, if you please,’ he said, with that air of being
hopelessly resolved. ‘This is a slight and passing friendship, Miss Wade,
but it may be a step towards a better world.’
====================
'I am a disappointed drudge, sir. I care for no man on earth, and no man on earth cares for me. No man on earth has ever shown a light to me.’

[‘I know better than that, sir,’ replied Mr. Peggotty, with a look of the most
degraded mortification. ‘I do not apply the same term to myself, sir.]

‘I have never shown a light to you since,’ said Steerforth. ‘I have never shown a
light to you. I have been as silent and private about it as you have been
about it. But I have never shown a light to you.’

‘And that is a most aggravating and natural conclusion,’ said Mr. Peggotty,
with an air of great respectability.

‘True, sir, true,’ said Steerforth, ‘that’s just my state. I do not
expect anybody else to do that.’

‘If you mean that you believe in the light of this present man,’ said
Mr. Peggotty, in a most impressive manner, ‘I beg to reply, sir, that I
do. I do not deny it.’

‘I am perfectly satisfied with you,’ said Steerforth. ‘I believe
in the light of this present man. I have the greatest confidence in it. I
assure you, as I have shown to you in myself, that I am a most respectable
man, and I hope I may have an honourable and happy passage through life.’

‘We are much obliged to you, sir,’ said Mr. Peggotty, with a
truly gracious air. ‘I hope you will excuse the imprudence of running
down to our corner, which is not there, sir.’

‘It’s not at all the place,’ said that gentleman. ‘I--I--am a
man who has made a great deal of money.’

‘A very great deal of money, indeed, sir,’ returned Steerforth; ‘and
who have spent a great deal of it.’

‘That’s just the fact,’ said Mr. Peggotty. ‘I am very sorry to have
had the honour of sharing your fortune, sir, and I hope I have had
the pleasure of sharing it with you. But I am anxious to get out
of this neighbourhood, and I am not at all at ease about your
lodgings, sir.’

[‘Good night,’ said Steerforth, in a kind, but not at a pace, of
composure. ‘I hope you had a pleasant dinner, sir, and that you
and I had as pleasant a night as you have described.’)

‘I should have had a very pleasant dinner, indeed, if you had not
interrupted me,’ said Mr. Peggotty, with a melancholy sigh. ‘I am
rather afraid I have overstepped my bounds, sir, upon this one occasion.
You had a very pleasant and convivial dinner, sir, and I am not quite
at home, as I have described.’

‘I hope Missis Gummidge will be better before long,’ said Steerforth.

‘I hope so,’ returned Mr. Gummidge. ‘It is a long way from Glorny Point,
sir.’

‘Is he?’ said Steerforth.

‘He is,’ said Mr. Gummidge, shaking his head. ‘He is a most remarkable
man.’

‘Is he?’ returned Steerforth. ‘Why, then, he is much the same as he was
when you and I were children.’

‘I have no doubt,’ said Mr. Gummidge, ‘that he is much the same as he
was when you and I were children. I say he is a most remarkable man. He
is so much the same as he was when I was young, and I think he would
be just the same, if he were not so much a part of the misfortune that
has brought him to this.’

‘What an immovable and immovable man he is,’ exclaimed Steerforth.

‘--His being,’ said Mr. Gummidge, with his former air of being
====================
'I am a disappointed drudge, sir. I care for no man on earth, and no man on earth cares for me. No man on earth has ever shown a light to me.’

‘I am sure I understand,’ said Mr. Pickwick, ‘that you have no ambition, and
have no means of doing good; but you have an irresistible good will, and if you
have any means of improving yourself, you will do much better than I can
understand. I am very sorry to part, Mr. Wardle, but I must accompany you to
London, if I can, for the poor boy has a very good friend there.’

Mrs. Weller shook her head, and smiled to me in no more flattering terms
than she had commenced with; she shook her head again, and smiled.

‘I have no time to live in, sir,’ said Mr. Wardle, ‘and I must go.’

‘Go!’ repeated Mrs. Weller, with a look of real indignation.

‘No, indeed,’ returned Mr. Pickwick, ‘I have got to-day off, and am
going to-morrow.’

‘How do you know it?’ asked Mrs. Weller.

‘I don’t know how,’ said Mr. Pickwick, looking at me very hard in
remonstrance, and nodding his head, as if he knew best.

‘Do you?’

‘I didn’t know it,’ said Mr. Pickwick, trembling with anxiety.

‘Do you?’

‘Why, sir,’ said Mr. Pickwick, shaking his head again, and smiling
impressively, ‘I thought it might be.’

‘How do you know it is?’

‘Just this very evening,’ said Mr. Pickwick. ‘I broke down, early
in the morning, in the midst of a great deal of excitement and
delight; and with a certain likeness of old, old me still living on
my way, I went down to a little coffee-house, a short way off, to look
at a great bookseller’s in the city.’

‘I have seen him,’ said Mrs. Weller, with a glance at the novice,
‘in the street.’

‘Very handsome,’ said Mr. Pickwick, drawing himself up. ‘As I remember,
he was not there lately; I doubt if he ever was.’

‘Do you think he has not been, lately,’ asked Mrs. Weller, in no
great surprise.

‘No, indeed,’ replied Mr. Pickwick. ‘I should think so. I have seen
him this morning in his usual place, and in his usual manner, and in
his usual condition. I left my house this morning, and walked all over
London: it’s a long way, it’s a long way, but here’s a short way, in a
short way.’

‘He is a very handsome man, sir,’ said Mrs. Weller.

‘I don’t know that he is,’ said Mr. Pickwick, looking at his watch.

‘He may be, sir,’ replied Mrs. Weller, ‘but I don’t know.’

‘Do you think, sir,’ inquired Mr. Pickwick, with a slow carelessness,
‘that you are not going abroad for a long time, sir?’

‘Not for a long time,’ replied Mrs. Weller. ‘Her brother is here,
too, and she is engaged.’

‘I shall be delighted,’ said Mr. Pickwick.

‘I hope so,’ said Mrs. Weller. ‘My eldest son is in the army, and
is thoughtfully and effectually engaged. My youngest son is in a
contract of intimacy, with a young lady of somewhat importance, and
has had to keep his eye upon him through a good many years. The
young lady’s name is Littimer.’

‘I have heard of him,’ said Mr. Pickwick.

‘Possibly,’ said Mrs. Weller. ‘The young lady was a little jealous of
his brother’s being away at sea,
====================
'I am a disappointed drudge, sir. I care for no man on earth, and no man on earth cares for me. No man on earth has ever shown a light to me.’

‘Even in the country, where you may be,’ said Mr. Stryver, with an eye on
the door, ‘you are very different from the hustings and bustle of London.’

‘I have not a doubt about it, sir,’ replied Lizzie.

‘I have had the happiness, sir,’ said Mr. Stryver, with a scarlet face, ‘to be
entertained in a very small circle of society, and to have the pleasure of
admiring, and defending, and promoting, the most distinguished and
exemplary female of my age. I have never been otherwise than in the highest
component of the most satisfying society.’

‘That, sir,’ said Lizzie, ‘is the truth.’

‘I’ll repeat that, sir,’ said Mr. Stryver. ‘I have never been in the
highest component of the most satisfying society, and I hope I may never
be. I am an excellent woman. I am my mother’s daughter. I am a woman. I am
equally the wife of a very great man, and I look to her offspring for
the best of society. You may be aware, sir,’ said Mr. Stryver, whose
ill-fated fortunes had made this transition in his mind, ‘that my
husband died a bachelor. I was a single woman. I am now a widow. My
only son is a clerk in a very small legal office--nothing like a
legal office, gentlemen, gentlemen--but he is the most distinguished
individual among the male line of the family. He is a keeper of the
stocking-trade, where I keep the stock. I am general counsel.’

‘I am well persuaded, Mr. Stryver,’ said Lizzie, ‘that you have a
long career ahead of you, and that you may do with as little
unimpaired judgment and accuracy, as you would with, if you had had a
long tenure of time in Parliament.’

‘Thank you, Lizzie,’ said Mr. Stryver, ‘I have no doubt of it.’

‘I am very much obliged to you, gentlemen,’ said Lizzie, ‘for the
confidence you so properly and gracefully expressed in this, my dear
Stryver, but I think I have assumed too much. I should not have
considered myself much in the discharge of my duties, if I had known that
I was not fit for them. I should not have been quite fit for the
little place in which I now stand. I should not have been fit for
my present calling, if I had not had an opportunity of learning, and
testing, and refining, my own gifts, my own learning, and refinement,
as I have achieved in the course of my career.’

Mr. Stryver looked at her with a face as composed as if he were
composed of thoughts, and said, ‘Of course.’

‘Yes, of course,’ said Lizzie. ‘I have no fear, I have no apprehensions,
I am sure I have done nothing to displease you. I hope I may do nothing to
displease you still, but it is so late. I am very sorry to have troubled
you, my dear Stryver. I only spoke of my own affairs.’

‘You never did,’ returned Stryver, ‘and perhaps you never will.’

‘Forgive my impatience,’ said Lizzie, with a bright flush, ‘and I
entreat you not to speak to me in that way. I only spoke of my own
affairs. I am very sorry that I have brought any little thing so
unpleasant and uncomfortable to you, but it is so late.’

‘My dear Lizzie,’ said Mr. Stryver, ‘I am under the necessity of
constituting you the editor of some weekly magazine.’

‘I am afraid,’ said Lizzie, with a slight curve of her lips, ‘that
I have not been strong enough.’

‘My love,’ returned Stryver, ‘you are too young to be a young lady.
====================
