Liberty, equality, fraternity, or death; — the last, much the easiest to bestow, O Guillotine!

As the hour approached, the hearers and the public busily went out
to the various stages of the procession, and arrived at the Rock; in
whom they left the unhappy Darnay, and his unhappy friend the respectable
Gabelle.

They were at a little distance from the monument of the departed, when a
most singular man, with his white hair all about him, and his singular
appearance, staggered up to the gate, and, striking his hat in mute
disappointment, despatched a messenger to bring a letter to the Earl
of Podsnappery. This was done in a little more than five minutes, and
Monseigneur was informed within five-and-twenty seconds of his death.

“Monseigneur!” said the strange man.

“What?” said the old gentleman, turning homeward.

“Monseigneur, old fellow, come here!”

The stranger, not desirous of attracting any more notice to himself,
stood upon his head of the column, and looked gloomily into the eyes of
Monseigneur, as if in appeal to that gentleman not to look in his
face.

“Monseigneur, you are a man of sense, and know what to do. The letter,
Monseigneur, must be laid in the waggon.”

“Then it must be carried out,” said the old gentleman. “Now pray
you, stand by the waggon.”

“Monseigneur,” said the stranger, with an odd sort of protest, “do me the
honour to be a friend of Monseigneur.”

“Friend of Monseigneur?” said the old gentleman.

“Have you his good word. I will take care that it shall be faithfully
deserved. I will leave it with you.”

“Monseigneur,” said the stranger, “I hope you have been long in France.”

“Monseigneur,” said the old gentleman, “I have been so happy here, that I
wish all was lost between Paris and London. I would not have that lovely
place where I have so much enjoyed the pleasure of your society, without
escaping from the hazard of being converted into a favourite of the
counterfeits.”

“The letters are gone,” said the stranger, as he glanced gloomily at Monseigneur.
“The letters are gone, but you have my confidence. I will trust my friend
Monseigneur to the waggon. He will carry it to your own carriage. I will
watch your every word.”

“As you will not be able to pull it out of my head, I will put it in
this box,” said the stranger. “But be careful how you go, and don't forget
to stop.”

“Follow me, dear Monseigneur,” said the old gentleman, “and do me the favour
to stop. Let us walk a little farther, a little farther.”

“Monseigneur, I have a great desire to ask you a question. Be so good as
come.”

“Question--where did you come from?”

“Bath.”

“Bath? Where did you come from?”

“Bath in France.”

“I will not say, it is not a pleasant name. Say, it is a curious name.”

“Do you mean the King?”

“He is the head of the place.”

“So you have been bred up in the country?”

“Yes.”

“Where did you grow up?”

“In a little village near Paris.”

“In a little village near Paris, too, I think.”

“How old were you then?”

“Two or three year old.”

“And did you ever see a Giroud?”

“Never.”

“Do you ever see a Giroud in Bath?”

“Never.”

“But I have heard of a number of people that know
====================
Liberty, equality, fraternity, or death; — the last, much the easiest to bestow, O Guillotine!

Bless you, my fellow-men, and ladies, and
gentlemen, and gentlemen, and gentlemen, and gentlemen, that Guillotine has
invented and re-invented this very device every single time, and in
vented and re-invented it far more times than you can count, to the
full extent of sixty-six, and more than forty-six, and forty-six
times, and more than forty-eight, and forty-nine, and forty-eight, and
more than forty-eight, and forty-eight, and forty-eight, and forty-seven,
and forty-seven, and forty-six, and forty-nine, and forty-seven, and
more than forty-seven, and forty-seven, and forty-eight, and forty-seven,
and forty-seven, and forty-nine, and forty-nine, and more than forty-eight,
and forty-seven, and forty-eight, and forty-seven, and even forty-nine,
and forty-seven, and even forty-nine, and forty-eight, and forty-seven,
and forty-nine, and more than forty-eight, and forty-seven, and four
tweaks for forty-nine, and more than forty-nine, and forty-seven, and
forty-seven, and twenty-seven, and twenty-eight, and twenty-nine, and
more than forty-eight and forty-nine, and forty-seven, and forty-seven, and
more than forty-eight and forty-nine, and forty-seven, on the heads of
the wicked, and on the backs of the righteous, and on the very tiresome
tiresomely trying to do something desperate enough to place it beyond the
limit of possibility!

Nevertheless, it was a long time before he was heard to speak.  The
night was fast closing in, and the wind was quietly stirring.  Someone
was quick to droop his head, and to lift his muffled feet to the
climb of the staircase; but his head was bandaged, and he could not be
brought to the surface.

The next person who appeared was Mr. Giles, who, with one hand
resting on the stick, and the other held to the sides of the
sitting posture, and with the other gripping the top of the skull, and
the jaw open as if to keep the patient from crying, was so extremely
full of business, that he might have been supposed to have two or three
times as much money about him as if he had had twenty heads.  The only
sign of business in his manner was a continual repetition of
the word 'present.'  He was, all this time, as big a bore as if he had
had twenty heads, and still more with his head slightly lowered on his
arm, never rising or falling but always lowered.

'Present!  Present!  Present!' thundered Mr. Giles.  'And you in front
and one half in the back.'

'Only one of two parties here,' said Mr. Bob Sawyer, adjusting the
sights of his eye.

'Only one of two parties!' repeated Mr. Giles, applying one hand to
the nose and holding the other tight to the jaw; 'and I think I see
the front.'

'I see you,' said Mr. Bob Sawyer.  'With the front of the three, I see
the light; and with the light, I see you.'

'I think I see you in front,' said Mr. Giles, looking round him.

'I see you in the rear,' said Mr. Bob Sawyer, adjusting his sight
directly.

Mr. Giles coughed to assert that he did not see; and, still looking round
with a much slighter aspect than before, repeated, 'I think I see you in
front.'

'I think I see you in the rear,' said Mr. Bob Sawyer.  With that, he raised
his head and looked at the wooden board, as a kind of blackboard; and
then fell to work in earnest, at a tedious and silent pace, with his chin
laying slant-forward, and his hat on one side, as he had worked it
during the whole time.

Mr. Giles, after sundry repetitions in this way, asked the patient if
he could hear the music?  The patient pointed to the left, and
said, 'Yes.'  Giles, after experimenting a little with the tune,
altered it to the right, and repeated
====================
Liberty, equality, fraternity, or death; — the last, much the easiest to bestow, O Guillotine!’

There was another knock at the door, and again Mr. Pickwick’s voice was
heard to reply.

‘Here, Jack Dawson! Here’s my friend the lawyer,’ said the voice of Mr.
Dawson.

‘Good God!’ exclaimed Mr. Pickwick. ‘Here’s Sergeant Snodgrass! Here’s
the waiter! Here’s everybody!’

‘Here you are all!’ said the sergeant. ‘Come on in, Captain Dawson.’

The visitors being by this time pretty well accustomed to each other,
and knowing each other, Mr. Pickwick, with many indignant smiles,
commenced a close and friendly conversation, to which their friendly
interview terminated.

The sergeant’s arrival, the comicality of the Pickwickians, the ingenuity of
the little servant, and the beauty of the little display, bore them away in
the course of a quarter of an hour. Mr. Pickwick was fain to retire to
the outer room of the bar, to recharge himself with a bit of earth,
or a little glass of ale, or to compliment his friend with a doll
or a purse of dollery, or to beg him to go and lay a comical little
paper, with a little bill on it, or to see what he can do for the Aged.

‘Lieutenant Tappleton,’ said Mr. Pickwick, ‘the Aged was just about to ask
him--it was Tuesday--if he could wish it, sir.’

‘Lieutenant Tappleton,’ returned the sergeant, ‘you may beheaded the Aged.--You may
fetch the book, sir.’

‘Here it is, sir,’ said Mr. Pickwick.

‘Lieutenant Tappleton,’ said the sergeant, ‘here it is.’

‘What’s the name of that book?’ said Mr. Pickwick.

‘The name of the brigade’s volume, you know, sir.’

‘Oh, Lieutenant Tappleton,’ said Mr. Pickwick.

‘The name of the brigade’s volume,’ said the sergeant.

‘What’s the name of the brigade’s volume, again?’ said Mr. Pickwick.

‘Here it is, sir,’ said the sergeant.

‘There’s the name of that volume, sir,’ said Mr. Pickwick.

‘But the names of the volumes,’ said the sergeant, smiling, ‘are Lieutenant,
Captain, and Colonel. Why, Mr. Pickwick, look here, sir! There’s a good
man on the line with the bad name of Lieutenant Tappleton, sir, who’s the
author of this very voluminous letter.’

Mr. Pickwick was so deeply impressed by the information, conveyed to him by
the sergeant, and by the sergeant’s manner of conveying it to him, that he could
have borne no conversation on the subject, without having Mr. Samuel Weller
guillotined.

‘Very good,’ said the sergeant. ‘Very good!’

‘Why, sir,’ said Mr. Pickwick, ‘after having treated with the Brigade, I
have come away, I think, to exhort the people of that brigade to do
more serviceable and deserving of their names. I have not been able to
convince you, sir, that you don’t know better.’

‘I am sorry to hear it, Mr. Pickwick,’ said the sergeant, with a troubled
countenance.

‘I am sorry to hear it,’ said the sergeant, shaking his head; ‘I think you
really are.’

‘Dear me, sir,’ said Mr. Pickwick, ‘I had the happiness of making a man of
you three, and I hope I may do justice to the memory by not confusing
you with my old friends and the names of my old pupils.’

‘Pray, Mr. Pickwick,’ said the sergeant, ‘do not. Here is a young man of
you three with a regiment’s worth of distinguished life, and he wants
====================
Liberty, equality, fraternity, or death; — the last, much the easiest to bestow, O Guillotine!

The clock struck ten, and the torches were carried up. Two or three battalions of
the Lancers, company-to-be-named, poured out in their solemn place; and
others, drawn up to meet them, held their weapons aloft, while the
great column moved slowly on. When it passed within a quarter of a
mile of them, they stopped, drew back, and looked. The peaceful little
column moved again, and they halted too; but this time, they looked
further. There was the well-remembered Tippins, in the dark corner of
the window, calmly smoking his pipe. The revolver was drawn from him, and
he held it in his hand. The general appearance of the place was, if I
may say so, Progressive. The Russian eagle on the black stars, like a sleeping
Star, was quite beside itself with amazement.

The little column was still moving, and the general appearance of the time
was, if I may say so, Progressive. The Russian eagle on the black stars,
like a sleeping Star, was quite beside itself with amazement.

The little column was still moving, and the general appearance of the
time was, if I may say so, Progressive. The Russian eagle on the black
stars, like a sleeping Star, was quite beside itself with amazement.

They stopped at a great window, where a couple of officers were watching the
outdoors with a despatching look. The officer in question was a tall, bony
man of a deep countenance, whose wig and whiskers were like his own, and
whose left eye, with the irascibility of a keen and sensitive observer, were
like the eyes of a beast. He was accosted by the officers as The Commander-in-Chief,
and addressed by the officers as The Pride. He wore no cross-bearer, and
he had a tall yellow silk handkerchief over his head, and his coat or
collar was rolled up into a tight ball about four-quarters of an inch
in diameter. He had a hat on, and wore a high-shouldered hat, ornamented with large
green baize. He had a leather purse slung over his arm, and was reaching
into his waistcoat, and seemed to have just deposited it on the table, when
the little column stopped as he crossed the room.

'Hollo!' said the Sergeant.

'Lieutenant, sir,' said the Sergeant.

'Lieutenant, sir,' said the Sergeant.

'What the devil do you come at me for?' asked the Sergeant, facing the
Colonel.

'For a pipe, sir,' replied the Colonel.

'Have you got one on you, sir?' said the Sergeant, peeping.

'I have,' replied the Colonel.

'Have you got two?' said the Sergeant.

'Two on me,' rejoined the Colonel.

'Good,' said the Sergeant, looking towards the officer with the yellow
handkerchief; 'you've been a-blowing the place to-day.'

'Blowing the place?'

'Well, sir, we won't say that, because it's a fancy, and--'

'Have you?' said the Sergeant.

'No,' rejoined the Colonel.

'What about it?'

'What about it?' rejoined the Colonel, stopping, as if he were startled,
and looking round with his hand on his sword.

'What about it, sir?'

'The Bloody Sunday people,' said the Colonel, stopping again.

'Wot is that?' inquired the Sergeant.

'The Bloody Sunday people,' rejoined the Colonel, 'if they say the
Tommies and the Daweseses, you know what the Tommies is, sir? They have
kept a Baptist day-school, sir, for twelve year and a half.'

'Indeed, sir?'

'Yes, sir; twelve year and six month.'

'And the Daweses,' said the Sergeant, glancing at the officer in the
fore-green coat, 'is another party. You may have heard of them, sir.'

'Ha! ha! ha!'

'And the Daweses,' said the Sergeant, 'is another party. They keep a
Punch night'--a kind of tavern, sir, a kind of tavern,' said the
Sergeant, fawning upon the officer, as he sat smoking a pipe in the
corner with his sword drawn, and his eyes intently looking at the
====================
Liberty, equality, fraternity, or death; — the last, much the easiest to bestow, O Guillotine!’

In this position of affairs, Mr. Bumble stepped up to the fire, and, holding
the hose over one shoulder, looked on with an air of solemnity.

‘Gentlemen, I beg your pardon.’

Here, he appeared to inhale deeply.

‘In a little while, gentlemen, I will put all these matters on the
table. The question is, shall I or no?’

This question was put to him in the most vacillating manner, and with the
vastest possible improbability of ever being answered. Mr. Bumble,
for some seconds, faintly shook his head.

‘It is the last question before me, gentlemen, that I wish to ask. If
you would do me the favour to say a few words more, gentlemen, I would
consider it worth my while. May I ask you, sir, to be so kind as to
call upon me at the Mill Pond Bank, at Pentonville, in the morning, to say that
I shall be blown upon the head without a moment’s loss of time?’

‘By all means,’ said Mr. Bumble.

‘Yes, sir.’

‘You have a partner, I see.’

‘A partner?’

‘A friend of mine. Don’t misunderstand me. I have not a partner in my
fellow-man, but in you. You have been so good a friend to me, while he
was in prison, that I wish to ask you, sir, to be so kind as to say
that I shall be blown upon the head without a moment’s loss of time?’

‘If I only had the opportunity, sir,’ said Mr. Bumble, ‘I should
take it as a great favour.’

‘Great favour, sir!’

‘You have been so good a friend to me, while he was in prison, that I
wish to ask you, sir, to be so kind as to say, sir, that I shall be
blown upon the head without a moment’s loss of time?’

‘I should take that as a favour, too,’ said Mr. Bumble.

‘If you can give me any little bit of information, sir, which will enable me
to go on in my usual way, Sir,’ with a smile, ‘or to go on in my usual
way in my usual time, or to tell me what I ought to do, or to think I ought
to do, you will be very welcome on this head. Would you mind to ask me
to be so kind as to say this, Sir?’

‘Certainly,’ said Mr. Bumble.

‘You needn’t,’ said Mr. Bumble, with an air of thorough and great
dexterity, ‘I don’t mind if you can’t say Sir, Sir. I know what I know. I
am not afraid to say Sir, sir.’

‘What is it that you say, sir?’ inquired Mr. Bumble, with a smile
again, ‘Pray don’t ask me why, for it ain’t worth my while. What is it that you
say, sir?’

‘I say,’ with another smile, ‘that she’s my soul, sir, and that she is
the best of women and that she makes my heart beat like a chief.’

‘That’s all, sir,’ said Mr. Bumble, finishing with his usual flourish of
the hand.

‘That’s a true statement,’ said Mr. Bumble, ‘and that’s all I want to
say. Good-night, sir.’

‘Good-night,’ said Mr. Bumble.

The worthy Mr. Bumble was regarded by his fellow-travellers with a
profound feeling of honour, which they were not able to express by
words. No, no, indeed; his fellow-travellers could do that better than
he could.

‘Good-night, sir,’ said Mr. Bumble, with a inspired smile.

‘Good-night, sir,’ said the other passengers.

‘I
====================
Liberty, equality, fraternity, or death; — the last, much the easiest to bestow, O Guillotine!

‘You see, Miss Mills,’ said the head-butcher, cutting the cheese, ‘it can’t be
done. It must be done. I’ll do it. I will, by you, and by the hangman, and
by the dogs, and by the authorities of the town, and by the
travellers, and by everybody who visits this town. Here’s my wife, Miss
Mills! Let us go down-stairs, and be greeted by Mr Henry Gowan!’

‘Rubbish the pretence of a lady of your age,’ said Miss Mills, shutting
down the door. ‘What a very pretty young lady you are. You are the daughter
of a gentlemen, I believe?’ ‘I am Mr Gowan’s first wife, Miss Mills.’

‘And is the lady a common one, or has she no taste?’ asked the butcher.

‘Very well, sir,’ replied Miss Mills, shrugging her shoulders, ‘what a
pretty and happy life that gentleman has led!’

‘That is the gentleman’s second wife, Miss Mills.’

‘And is she a common one, or has she no taste?’

‘Very well, sir,’ replied Miss Mills, again shrugging her shoulders.
‘what a happy life that gentleman has led! And what an excellent
stature he has! I praise him most!’

‘And what an excellent sense he has, Miss Mills,’ said the butcher, with
a cruel smile and a claw at the cheese, ‘that he sees the merit of breaking
the heads of his enemies to the very wheels of his cart! I say, let us go
down-stairs, and be greeted by Mr Gowan!’

‘Come, come,’ said Miss Mills, retreating again into her booth, ‘you
don’t know what a lady I am, and you certainly don’t know what a
gentleman. The fact is, I have known this gentleman before, though I
did not know him well. I have known him about, as well as one could
think. In the short time I have known him, he has been very
common.’

The other, who was at his side, and who had his arms wound round the
cobra, eyed the fair land and the good old man as if they were a son and
daughter; and then looked at the door, and at Miss Mills, and at the
chariot, and at the boy, and at the boy again, and thought about the wine
that was on the table, and at the coffee, and at the pie, and at the
lobster, and at the bacon, and at the pudding, and at the other news, and
at the butter, and at the lavender, and at the other novelty, and at
the candle, and at the clock, and at the bank, and at the dog sitting
on the cravat, and at the king’s hat, and at the bull-like dance, and at
the little girl in a cotton-velvet small enough to be a Princess, and at
the small-fashioned clock, and at the lovely hat with diamonds round
it, and at the little boy with his eyes in his own little waistcoat, and
at the little boy in a silky hat with diamonds round the top, and
at the little girl in a lilac velvet small enough to be a Garter, and
at the little girl in a white gauze stocking all curled up in the corner
of the little table, and at the little boy in a long striped small
enough to be a Tickle, and at the little girl in a white gauze
stocking all curled up in the corner of the little table, and at the little
boy in a pair of fur-lined thimble-coloured biggodd gloves all
curiously bunched up, and at the little girl in a bright thimble-coloured
biggodd hat all curled up in the corner of the little table, and at the
little boy in a pair of fur-lined thimble-coloured long sleeves all
curiously bunched up, and at the little girl in a bright thimble-coloured
mother-of-pearl spectacles all curled up in the corner of the little
table, and at the little boy in a long narrow carter’s cap all
curiously
====================
Liberty, equality, fraternity, or death; — the last, much the easiest to bestow, O Guillotine!’

‘If you have no object but the object of breaking down in your
poverty,’ said Mr. Lorry, ‘I think I would recommend you to it with all
the other men.’

‘You are very good,’ said the other. ‘But I doubt if you really mean to
break down in your poverty.’

‘I mean to be rich,’ said Mr. Lorry.

‘You are very good,’ said the other.

‘But you will be poor, you know.’

‘I know I will be poor. But it is my fate,’ said Mr. Lorry, ‘that I
shall be poor.’

‘You are sure?’ said the other.

‘I may be. I may be. It is not fair to say I have no hope of that.
I am sure.’

‘Good!’ said the other.

‘You are in a manner touched, sir,’ said Mr. Lorry, ‘by my poverty. I
am thankful to you for your pity. I beg it to you.’

‘It is a doubt,’ said the other, with some displeasure.

‘No doubt it is,’ said Mr. Lorry. ‘What I mean is, that whether you call
it a doubt, a doubt, a doubt, or a doubt, you will use the word in a manner
that implies some thoughtlessness or wrong-headedness on the part of the
other. You can’t help yourself.’

‘Why, you are always using me as the reason for all the poor people’s being
saved,’ said the other.

‘Ay, ay,’ said Mr. Lorry, ‘that’s the way with these here folks, that they
will use me as the reason. They will use me as a reason for all the poor
people’s being helped out of destitution, and into the street. It’s quite a
look-out!’

‘Don’t talk to me, sir, don’t!’ replied the other, with a sharp
relish. ‘I am not complaining. I speak for myself, and I want to do what I
speak for. And I hope I am not harsh.’

‘Then you are very harsh?’ said Mr. Lorry.

‘I hope I am not,’ replied the other. ‘But I am always using you as the
reason. Why, you look in the mirror, my porochial self-willed fellow, and you
see that I am a good-natured, good-natured fellow, with a good soul!’

‘And a bad one,’ murmured Mr. Lorry, in a low voice.

‘And a bad one,’ said the other. ‘And a very bad one.’

‘But you are not to look in the mirror,’ said Mr. Lorry, ‘and you
don’t have to look in the mirror, and you’ll say what you think you
see, and you won’t be judged.’

The other had already said, that he thought he saw a good one; and he
continued to say, until he had said it ten thousand times, with a sound
that penetrated even to the very words he had said.

‘And what the devil do you mean, you rascal!’ he muttered, ‘by asking
any questions of me? Why do you ask me, why do you ask me? Why do I
ask you?’

‘Because you wanted to know, Mr. Lorry,’ said Mr. Lorry, with a
smile.

‘Because I wanted to know?’ said the other.

‘Because I’ll tell you,’ said Mr. Lorry, with a serious look, ‘what the
devil you’ve done, and where you have come from.’

‘So I thought,’ murmured the other, with a groan, ‘that you wanted
to know me.’

‘Well, then, I am a going to tell you,’ said Mr. Lorry
====================
Liberty, equality, fraternity, or death; — the last, much the easiest to bestow, O Guillotine!’

There was another knock at the door, and the door was softly opened.

‘What!’ exclaimed the old madame, when she recognised the voice. ‘Who’d
have thought it?’

‘It’s mad!’ ejaculated the Doctor. ‘The last I heard of him, he was
drinking brandy with a Marquis; and that was in the morning, when he
asked his daughter whether he shouldn’t like to have a cup of coffee. She
asked me right away, whether he shouldn’t like to have a cup of coffee; and
I said, No, he should not; and I held him till she left him with me, and
he went out at the gate. I know he was heard to say, Come and sit by me;
and he did; and he sat there all the rest of the day; and I sat by him all
the night.’

‘You are tired, madame?’

‘No, not at all tired,’ said the old madame, ‘I have been eating and drinking
and having a good sleep all night. I am tired of it, and will stop at
least two more cups of coffee, and at least three more sheets of
silk, and perhaps I shall die without more silk.’

‘Gone to the devil!’ ejaculated the Doctor, in an angry strain. ‘Gone to
the devil, my dear madame!’

‘No, no,’ said the old madame, ‘I will not stop at two more cups of
coffee, and at three more sheets of silks, because I have already stretched
my limits to the utmost. I will stop at no more than four more cups of
coffee, and at five more sheets of silks, and I’ll die without more silks.
I see in this man a villain everything that is good and true; and I will
stop at nothing to serve my friends. I make the same sacrifice in the name
of Heaven, I will not cross any more of his traps; and I will spare his
crimes, in the name of Heaven, and of his people too.’

‘You are not afraid of your own comfort, then, madame?’ said the Doctor
gently.

‘No, my dear Doctor, no,’ she returned, with a smile, ‘it is not my
concerns that are the chief one of my anxiety, but his. His power over me
and his influence on my husband, his influence on my child, his
power over me and my husband’s child, all his influence and influence,
are all in my dim mind. I am afraid of nothing else.’

‘Unless you were to say that I was not to be blamed for my bad luck,’
said the Doctor, ‘how could you be? How could you be the cause of such
hurting?’

‘I do not even know,’ answered the madame, ‘how it can be that I was
assigned to you, or why. All I know is, that I ought to have been more
reserved, more careful, more careful.’

‘You are not to be blamed for being deceived, madame.’

‘I know it is not the fault of my husband, or of my poor child. It
was all yours. It was all yours.’

There was a pause.

‘It’s not fair,’ said the Doctor, ‘to say that you were to blame.
Who can blame you? You were deceived. You couldn’t have been more
assured of that, I think, if you had known better.’

‘Kind, generous, and good,’ the old madame assented, ‘in your way,
though not always in mine, of what I expected, I am sure. I am very
thankful to you. I will not complain. I hope you will forgive me. I
especially wish that you, dear Doctor, will think of me as your
husband, instead of as a patient. I will not say that I hope you will not
think of me as your husband, but as your husband. If you think as such,
you will do a great injustice to yourself, and I will not pretend to
anything.’

‘Come,
====================
Liberty, equality, fraternity, or death; — the last, much the easiest to bestow, O Guillotine!

‘Now, Sir, as to that question of property; the question of
property which is always presented and assumed by the vulgar. Mr Julius
Handford, sir, with the permission of his friends, Mr Charles
Charles F., and many other noblemen and gentlemen, are in the habit of
declaring that they have a hundred thousand pounds. What is this, Mr
Julius, which you, with the permission of your friends, should be
excused from declaring to the friends of your family? Mr Julius
Handford, sir, says, 'That there never was a dollar bill in all the
small world of print, print, print.' What do you say to that? I ask you
to imagine a hundred thousand pounds, Mr Julius, in a bank note, and to say
the same to my friend Charles F., and to admit that you may occasionally
find such documents, in his name, floating up for sale on the open
markets? You say nothing at all, sir. You say that you have a private
servant, sir--say a lady, or a young lady, or a parent, or a stranger--to
marry your friend, sir, and you have been a wulgar scoundrel, and you are a
wretched sow, since you have professed the error of your ways.’

‘I won’t,’ said Julius, ‘call her a child--she is young and pretty.
I will say, in my own way, that I would much rather have been a
magistrate, or a book-binder, or a beggar, or a drunkard, or something of
that sort, than a little silly girl who only eats to please herself.’

‘I think you are very childish,’ returned his friend, with a smile and
a grave look.

‘Very childish indeed!’ cried Miss Havisham.

‘And I won’t,’ said Mr Julius Handford, ‘call her a child-wife, sir. I will
add, that I would much rather have been a bachelor in the first
essence, than a double one. And I won’t,’ said Mr Julius Handford, ‘call her a
child-star, sir. I would much rather have been a bachelor in the
first pair of boots, than a double one. And I won’t,’ said Mr Julius Handford,
‘call her a child-star, sir. I would much rather have been a bachelor in
the first room, than a double one.’

‘But you are a boy, sir,’ Miss Havisham urged.

‘I think I am,’ returned Mr Julius Handford. ‘I know I am. I was going to
say that if she had been a little more modest, and had been allowed to
have more of a heart, she might have been a little happier. But who can
help a child, sir, with such plenty of money as she had? She’s a
star, she’s a star!’

Miss Havisham, with her eyes fixed upon the fire, stared at him in various
stages of indifference, from which he emerged with the learned laugh and
sentence, ‘I wish you’d take a drop of brandy, sir, if you can spare the
time.’

‘I think I will,’ said Mr Julius. ‘I’ll do my best to make up for your
miseries.’

Miss Havisham and her generous self-denial looked upon him in the
characteristics of patients with whom he was accustomed to be
complied. The patient qualities, however, being gone out of the
clinical sphere of action, he entered on the service of Mr Charles
F., who was the object of his solicitude. The two friends patrolled
the streets together, frequently stopping to exchange information. They were
both what might be called at that moment in a ruminative mood; Mr
Julius, dwelling upon the past; Mr Charles F., upon the present.

They were not likely to return to the scene of action without having at
once touched upon some theme very forcibly expressed by the figure of
Dora. Whether it was the theme of Miss Jane Austen’s affections, or the
scenario of Miss Clarissa’s imagination, is a moot point. Miss Agnes
had a vision of the young lady, and Mr Charles F. was the unfortunate
boy
====================
Liberty, equality, fraternity, or death; — the last, much the easiest to bestow, O Guillotine!

“The time was, sir, within a month of the time hereof. I was well used to
the theatre, and had seen enough of it to know how it worked. I had seen enough of
the gallows and the scaffold to know that it was not a pleasant place to take
one's stand upon. I had seen enough of the two places to know that they
were both dangerous places. I had seen enough of the people who were inside to
know that there was a bow and arrow in the passage, and that it was a bad
drawing; and yet I could make up my mind to remain here. I could do that
very reasonably, considering what I knew of the city. I had seen enough of
the people who were inside to know that they were not to be patted upon the
shoulder, and I could do that with a fair return. I had seen enough of the
people who were not to be patted upon the shoulder to know that they were
easy; and to be sure enough I was up there on the box in the front.

“I have never seen a better place,” said I, “even in my time of life.”

“Very well indeed,” returned the Counting-house, “the more you describe it
the better.”

“It is a very old building,” I returned, “though much modified.
It oughtn’t to have been so old.”

“And do you call it a residence?” the Counting-house asked.

“Well,” I returned, “it is a residence, and it has been used a
long time.”

“Can it be a residence?” said the Counting-house again?

“It can be,” said I.

“And it’s a pretty old place,” said it again, with a touch of pride in
its boast; “though in an imperfect condition.”

With those words, it passed from my lips into the Counting-house’s, and
then became the Property, and became something definite and boundless, with
a will of its own, its own goods, its own ways, its own carriage, its own
cares, its own servants, its own shops, its own games, its own adventures,
its own stories, its own amusements, its own characters and amusements
triumphantly repeated, and everything within its limits, so far, as the eye
caught, and so far, and wide apart, as the ear could trace, and so far,
and near, and yet not at all apart, that it would have been hard to guess
at the last.

I found comfort in this, as I looked around me with my ear drooping
on my head and my eyes intently searching the two windows, and my
eyes looking at them, and thinking of the little room in the front, with its
very little window directly opposite, upon the summit of the tower
looking down into the yard below, and the little room in the rear, with its
little window directly opposite the one next me, on the summit of the
towers commanding the yard below, and the little room in the centre, all
formed the boundary of the precincts of Saint Antoine.

My comfort was not all of a personal kind. I was so ill-used by the
counting-house that I made the best of my way to the yard without
having the remembrance of having been born here, and even by finding the
official paper, and the official further notes, in the Counting-house
at the main gate. I was so unconscious of the fact, that I even thought
the whole house audaciously sacred to me, and that no man had ever been
signed to its enjoyment, without myself imagining how I ought to treat
it. Thus, I was constantly getting up as early as I could, and going to
and fro in a great cloak, looking into the yard and yard below, and
looking over at the towers, with people walking at me and looking down
into the yard, and all the people looking at me; and yet I was quite
selfish--always doing all this, and sometimes even going away before
my duty was done, to go among the bayonets and come upon the enemy before
me.

But the time came, and the Duty was past; and I was to go back to the
counting-house again to do my duty. And I went back, all in a moment
====================
